AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThere was a curious notation next to the names of two of the top four players selected in the Major League Baseball draft this month. For Hunter Greene, selected No. 2 over all, it was RHP/SS, while for Brendan McKay, No. 4, it was LHP/1B.Both of these prospects are the rare birds who are able to pitch and hit. And they may soon be joined in the majors by Shohei Otani, a pitching and hitting star for the Nippon Ham Fighters of the Pacific League in Japan.While most people expect each of these players to be steered exclusively to either hitting or hurling, there remains the tantalizing possibility that one of them could become the first major leaguer in a century to do both regularly.Their dual status is not nominal. Greene, a 17-year-old California high schooler selected by the Reds, hit .324 and had a career E.R.A. of 1.62. McKay, 21, selected by the Rays, was 11-3 with a .341 batting average for Louisville. Otani has starred in Japan at the plate and on the mound.Right now, Greene is considered more of a pitching prospect, while McKay is more of a hitter. But what’s stopping them from doing both? Historically in baseball, it just hasn’t happened. But maybe now is the time.“I think we have a lot more general managers who aren’t as traditional,” said Harold Reynolds, a former infielder who is now an analyst for MLB Network. “Kris Bryant played five positions last year. Fifteen years ago, he’s a third baseman and that’s it.”He continued: “It’s different now. I think they’ll get a chance to do both. They’re going to allow McKay to throw pitches, and Green can play some shortstop. They haven’t shut the door before they get started.”In cricket, a player who can hit and bowl is called an all-rounder and is an important part of any lineup. But baseball has shunned letting players both pitch and hit regularly. Even Babe Ruth, who seemed to be on his way to a Hall of Fame pitching career, hung up his pitching glove when he was converted to an outfielder in his early 20s.A few players have changed sides in midcareer, notably Rick Ankiel, who lost his control as a Cardinals pitcher and made it back to the majors as a hitter a decade ago.Great athletes are usually versatile. It is not uncommon in Little League for the best pitcher on a team to be the best hitter, too. But as players age and face tougher competition, they begin to specialize. Even two-way college stars like Dave Winfield, who pitched in the College World Series, and Bobby Thigpen are steered one way or the other upon joining the professional ranks.There are plenty of hazards to letting a player do double duty. Teams would certainly not want to send a key pitcher into the outfield, say, on his off days and risk injury or fatigue.“In the National League, a pitcher is not going to play a position,” said Rick Peterson, a former pitcher and pitching coach turned author who wrote “Crunch Time,” a business leadership book. “It’s too risky. You have to do a considerable amount of throwing.”“If you have a chance to be a starting pitcher and get to free agency, that’s the most expensive commodity in sports. Why would you risk that?”Reynolds said: “The challenge is position. Greene at shortstop would be more difficult than McKay at first. He has to throw balls across the diamond.”A player drafted by an American League team, like McKay, could presumably be a designated hitter between mound appearances. But the D.H. is usually a big hitter, and no pitchers in recent times have hit nearly well enough to fill that role. Peterson also notes that if the two-way star bats for himself when he is the starting pitcher, then is pulled from the game, the team cannot bring in a designated hitter and would have to let its relievers bat.The one man who seems best positioned to break the paradigm is Otani. Though a two-way player is unheard-of in modern major league history, Otani, 22, has been  doing it in Japan. He once regularly turned out in the outfield, but now usually plays designated hitter or pinch hits when he’s not pitching, taking a day off before starts.Last season he pitched in 21 games, and played in 104 of his team’s 143 games in total, thriving in both roles. He was 10-4 with a 1.86 E.R.A., and batted .322 with 22 homers. The Fighters won the championship.“You probably just haven’t had someone who is that talented — that is the issue,” Peterson said. “Otani is going to push that envelope.”There are contract complications, but Otani could come to the majors as soon as next season. He is thought of as more of a pitching prospect at this point, but his numbers certainly seem to show he could also help a team from the batter’s box.It wasn’t unusual for pitchers to take the field on their off days in the 19th century: Dave Foutz of the 1888 Brooklyn Bridegrooms has the record for plate appearances by a pitcher who appeared in at least 20 games, with 593. But if you look only at 1950 to now, no one has more than 151. (That was Bob Lemon of the 1950 Cleveland Indians, who had started his career as a position player.) In the 21st century, Madison Bumgarner, who has shown quite a bit of pop in his bat, made it to the plate 97 times last season, helped by a couple of pinch hitting appearances.Plenty of fans and baseball people are excited about the possibility of a true two-way player.“It would be great,” Reynolds said. “The game needs it. We’re losing a lot of athletes because of specialization at age 12. Hopefully something like this will bring kids back to creativity.“I’m a traditionalist, and I think it’s the best thing that could happen to the game.”Advertisement