AdvertisementSupported byBy Readers Of The New York TimesWhen we decided to help out Major League Baseball in its attempts to finally address the fans’ complaints about the length of games, we asked fans to give us some suggestions. Well, we were a little surprised at how passionate people were about the subject and how much thought they put into it. We received nearly 3,000 submissions and included some in the original article. Here is a selection of the best of the rest. (Some submissions were edited for brevity and clarity.)Baseball is the American pastime. It does not need fixing. The rules are the rules. Tweak them here or there, but a game will still be over when it’s over. If one cannot handle the length of a game, one has two choices. No. 1: DVR or TiVo the game. Then you will control how long it lasts. No. 2: Walk away and find another hobby because it’s more than obvious that you are not a true fan. The choice is yours. — R Mohler, Lancaster, Pa.****I would leave it exactly as it is. Saying baseball needs to be fixed is like saying country music needs to be more like heavy metal or hip-hop. If you want a fast-paced action sport, there are plenty out there. Those of us who gravitate toward baseball do so because it isn’t that. Don’t screw it up! — Bruce Schoenfeld, Boulder, Colo. ****I keep hearing that baseball is broken, but I keep seeing my grandchildren’s growing interest in the game, both in playing it and in watching it. What’s broken is that it costs too much for a family to attend M.L.B. games, even during spring training, so instead we/they go to minor league games (one of sports’ best bargains) and, here in Arizona, fall ball. There is no crying in baseball. Neither should be there be a clock. Don’t overthink this, just make it more affordable to watch in person. — Larry Edsall, Phoenix****In a world of I want it now, baseball is the one of the few sports that lets us relax and take in the moment. A moment to talk to a friend about what to throw or a moment to take another bite of a hot dog. In that moment, your mind can go wild thinking of different scenarios that could happen. Can baseball be changed to make it faster? Of course, it can. But changing the game to become more aligned to the football generation is looking at it wrong way. Every sport has it ebbs and flows. Football has it every 30 seconds. Baseball has it every 4-5 plays. In a baseball game, a pitcher could throw a curveball way outside just to get into the mind of the hitter. Little does the viewer know that two pitches later, when the pitcher throws a similar pitch for a strike, all will become clear. So, I say to everyone who wants to change the game, “Pull up a chair,” and open your mind. — Gary, Vancouver, B.C.****I would fix baseball by celebrating it for what it is. Shouting from the rooftops that the game is boring and broken offends those of us who love it and scares off those who might otherwise have been interested. If the league were at all serious about shortening games and increasing the pace of play, they could do so instantly by removing or shortening a few commercial breaks. Also, maybe they could sprinkle tiny flecks of flint on the basepaths. That way the runner’s cleats would throw up a shower of sparks when he’s stealing a base. — Davy Andrews, Forest Hills, N.Y.****Baseball doesn’t need “fixing.” The beauty of baseball is that it’s not timed. There’s no clock. Now more than ever, it offers an escape from our time-constrained lives. I know plenty of high-school aged fans who love the game the way it is played and don’t get bored with it, because they take the time to understand the game. Do you see the N.F.L. discussing eliminating the huddle because that bores fringe viewers? Why should baseball consider changing its rules for those same fringe fans? ... To paraphrase Terrance Mann, The one constant through all the years, Mr. Manfred, has been baseball. Resist the temptation to alter a game for short-term returns that has survived because it is a constant. — Frank Filippone, Tampa, Fla.****Wrong question. The right questions are: How can we help old and young alike to engage with the game of baseball as is? And how can baseball make more clear why its older, countryside-origin rhythms are good for people, are good for the game? Baseball comes from and represents a world we are losing — a more timeless world; a world where you can enjoy the company of others as a game unfolds; a world where people and players and umpires make mistakes and we know they make mistakes and we do not chase perfection with technology. — Charles Novogrodsky, Toronto****Baseball doesn’t need fixing. It’s absolutely thriving. Other than minor tweaks to replay challenges, I wouldn’t change a thing. For what it’s worth, I’m 25 — part of the generation that supposedly demands instant everything (an implication I find insulting). No other sport will ever displace for me the beauty of baseball, and the game does not need to be distorted and debased to try to appease a hypothetical generation with attention deficits. In fact, I have been diagnosed with Attention Deficit Disorder, but that hasn’t stopped me from watching all Cubs games in their entirety every year. And the reason for that is because I grew up loving the team, and the game. My dad made me a fan when I was young, just as so many fans have learned the game from their parents. THAT is the way the game spreads to the next generation. Fans pass it down to their children, happy to share this great game that they grew up watching. Don’t alienate those people with shortsighted, reactionary meddling. Market the exceptional (and plentiful!) product on the field, and the next generation will learn it in turn. I do like this new thing where the Cubs win the World Series, though. Let’s keep doing that. — Matt Monson, Mountain View, Calif.****1. 162 regular-season games per team are way too many. Players don’t take every game 100 percent serious (compared to the N.F.L., for example). How about a spring and a fall championship (as in Brazilian soccer)?2. How about a promotion/relegation scheme, where teams need to fight hard to stay in the league (as in European sports)?3. How about awarding more points for certain achievements, e.g. extra points for wins by a margin of 3 and above, no points for teams who haven’t scored a run, and in turn, extra points for the teams that haven’t allowed runs in a match?4. To win back some integrity, all players found guilty of substance abuse should be banned for life, and their salaries should retroactively be clawed back and given to charity. — Dennis Nilhaets, New York****O.K., this is absolutely tongue-in-cheek for our existing game, but if you were starting a game from scratch this would be fun. Add another second base 15 feet beyond the current one from the seventh inning on. Baserunners have the option of using this base, and if they score it’s worth one and a half runs. Kind of like the 2-point conversion in football. Except with this, the decision making would be on the fly. — Anthony Cosgrove, Guilford, Conn.****1. Arguments by managers, coaches, players bring the loss of either one pitching change or two pinch-hitters — at discretion of the opponent.2. Replays MUST be faster.3. Replays MUST be faster.4. Replays MUST be faster. — Mike Brown, Harrisburg, Pa.****Baseball is a really strategic and slow sport. I watch and play baseball every summer. It is not a great sport to watch because of how long and slow it is. When I play baseball, it’s more fun to be involved in a play, except you feel awful if you make a mistake. Baseball might be a slow sport, but it’s really quick-thinking when you’re in a play. Every time I watch baseball I have to try to find another show during commercials, or when it gets boring. One way we can prevent baseball from getting so boring is to limit mound visits to two or three a game. Also teams would only be able to have five pitchers and eight warm-up pitches per pitcher. In between an inning, the players warm up for two minutes, which I think is too long. Another way to make baseball more fun is to limit extra innings to two, then after that, it is a draw. My last idea is to make sure batters stay in the box and pitchers to go quicker. All of these ideas should help and make baseball more fun. — Connor Gaarder, Visitation Catholic School, Kansas City, Mo.****Double the value of the first pitch. For example, if the first pitch is a strike, the batter has two strikes. If the first pitch is a ball, the batter has two balls. It puts more pressure on the pitchers to throw first-pitch strikes. Starting pitchers will go farther into the game by throwing fewer pitches. Batters are limited in their ability to work the count by taking the first pitch. It puts first-pitch pressure on hitters. Good first-strike pitchers will be at a premium. It will speed up the game.Let the designated hitter hit twice in the order separated by five batters only if the DH hits is in the 2, 3 or 4 position in the batting order. For example, the DH could hit 2nd and 7th, or 3rd and 8th, or 4th and 9th. The batting order would now have 10 batters. It might put more zip into the bottom of the order. Clubs could designate a bench runner at the beginning of the game if the DH has to leave a base to bat again in the same inning. I would assume the percentage of this occurring would be nominal. Baseball owners would get more bang for their buck for a DH. It will add offense to the game. — Gerald A. Bagazinski, Livonia, Mich.****Move the pitcher’s mound back 10 feet to increase the number of hits, runs and score! That makes the game more fun with lots of action to keep the audience (both in the park and at home on TV) more interested. — Dalton Williams, Washington, D.C.****The friends I have that don’t enjoy baseball don’t avoid the sport because of the pace of play (if that were true, they wouldn’t be football fans). Ultimately, I think it’s the failure in marketing. The prime example is Mike Trout. Trout is destined to be one of the greatest baseball players of all time, yet he seems hardly known outside of the sport. Baseball has its savior, but they aren’t doing anything with a guy who should be 10 times as popular as Curry or Brady. — Tim Brett, Toronto, Ontario****If you accept that the problem with MLB is that it moves too slowly, that the exciting moments are too few and far between, and that the games take too long to play, then I would fix it by borrowing from other versions of the game and other leagues: Shorten the game to seven innings (like Little League). Start hitters with a 1-1 count (like recreational softball leagues). Allow players to foul out with a two-strike count (like in recreational softball leagues). Move the fences in (like the N.H.L. effectively made goals bigger by making goalie pads smaller) to have more homers. And reduce the number of players on the field (like the N.H.L.’s 3-on-3 overtime) to create more space for base hits. — Jacob Ritvo, Palo Alto, Calif.****Headsets. Then ban mound visits to pitchers and stepping out of the box for batters. Set pitch delivery time limits starting in the low minors so prospects reach the bigs with efficient work habits. Abandon the broadcast model. Stream all games with no commercial breaks. Offer streams free to those who accept ads between pitches and innings. All others will have to pay. To improve offense, eliminate radical shifts by fixing the locations of fielders within zones until the ball reaches the plate. Inspect pre-WWII photos so the zones match what Williams faced in 1941. Violations are errors. — Robert LaRose, Zhubei, Taiwan****Speed up the time between pitch cycles: 1. Batters can only step out of the box every 4 pitches (More than this the batter is awarded a strike); 2. Pitchers need to be on a “pitch clock” (miss the clock and the batter gets a ball); 3. Eliminate walk-up songs except for the first batter in each inning; 4. Limit throws to first base to three per game/team to speed up play and add offense; 5. If pitchers can’t keep a batting average over .150 as a batter, then they don’t get to bat. It’s an automatic out. This does two things: speeds up the game and forces pitchers and teams to actually act like the pitcher hitting matters. — Keith Reester, Longmont, Colo.****Within the first six innings of a game, allow managers to “borrow an out” from the ninth inning, meaning that a manager can use one of the three ninth inning outs to prolong a rally but is left with two outs in the ninth. — Brett H. Bowden, Westchester, N.Y.****Allow teams to choose when an inning is over. An inning must end on an out. Runners on second and third no out? Send a few more players to the plate trying to capitalize on the scoring opportunity. Got a pitcher on the ropes? Keep batting to try to knock him out. Your team is up 10-0 in the third inning? Change innings after one out to dare the other team to catch up or end the game quickly. This would promote more scoring opportunities, which makes the game more watchable and exciting (see hockey and soccer which live by scoring opportunities). This would certainly make the in-game strategy more dynamic as well. Bad games would end faster. Of course, fewer “guaranteed” commercial breaks would need to be mitigated by more watchable games. — Ed Shirley, Bartlett, Ill.****1, Make franchises maintain an “alternate-entertainment-free zone” within a ballpark. Baseball takes learning, no matter how much you speed up the game. All the extraneous entertainment prevents people from focusing on the game. 2, Do everything in your power to lower ticket prices, including mandating bleacher seats. When I was in junior high school in the 80s, I could attend Oakland A’s games and sit behind Rickey Henderson for $3.50 tickets on Friday nights. If you make it reasonably priced entertainment, you’ll grow your fan base, especially among kids and teens. Don’t copy the N.B.A. or the N.F.L. with all the terrible luxury box seats that go unoccupied. Sports franchises make large portions of their income on TV rights and licensing deals, anyway. Are you making more money charging $900 a seat in a regular-season game, or filling a lot of cheap seats with rabid fans? — M. Masaya Seltzer, Brooklyn****Baseball is the sport where superstars have the least impact at the most crucial times. In every other sport, the star can hit the big shot, throw the touchdown pass or score the goal when it counts, in the last seconds. Here is my idea. Radical for sure. In the eighth or ninth inning, the team at bat, if losing or tied, can advance the batting order back to the top of the order (one time only). We need more offense. More excitement. Let the best players put the bat in their hands against the best relievers at the most important times. It will add tremendous excitement and give the stars the opportunity to be stars! — Doug Tumen, Woodstock, N.Y.****1.) Salary cap. As much as everyone not from New York or L.A. loves seeing the Yankees and Dodgers being competitive every year because they spent two or three times as much money on their salary as the average small-market team spent, it needs to stop. The game is practically inherently rigged against the teams in small markets, and it makes it feel less competitive. A hard cap may not be the best idea, but a more punishing luxury tax would be a great place to start. Parity. And less hopelessness for Twins fans.2.) Give teams longer control over their homegrown talent in a way that’s fair to the players. Watching Manny Machado, Nolan Arenado and Bryce Harper rise to superstar status on their respective teams has been fun. Watching them sign with a different team (again, probably the Yankees or Dodgers) when their six years of team control is up will be very far from fun. Imagine how different the game would be if A-Rod was a lifelong Mariner. Fans would be so much more loyal to their teams and players. Buying a jersey for any given Athletics player wouldn’t be the worst decision ever (which it is now, because you know if the player is good, they’ll be gone in two seasons). Guys like Adam Jones and Andrew McCutchen are so much more fun to watch because you know they love their team and they don’t want to leave. More of that would be nice. And promote more parity between teams. — Cole Bowden, Nashville, Tenn.****I think everyone is off base (pun intended). Baseball doesn’t need to speed up, it needs more offensive excitement. Easy fix: have one lineup for offense and one for defense (like the N.F.L.). MLB will get more hitting, more base running, more scoring ... more excitement! — Larry Sternbach, Marlboro, N.J.****The most important thing baseball can do is to attract young children to make up its future fan base. I propose limiting the number of Saturday and Sunday night games to one or two league wide. Ticket prices should also be reduced for children under 12. By requiring teams to play day games on the weekend, they will attract families and create the parent/child bond of rooting for the same team that I grew up with and my father grew up with. — Haran Rashes, Ann Arbor, Mich.****Baseball should take some hints from Mario Golf: Targets to hit for bonus points. — Rick Lindeman, Utrecht, Netherlands****Expand the RBI program to build parks in inner-cities. Heavily market the black stars to youth. Allow internet users to share videos and GIFs more freely. Ease blackout restrictions on broadcasts and internet streaming. Bring back TWIB! — Miles Pequeno, Austin, Tex.****Everything about the challenge system is broken. To start, if someone comes off the bag by a milli-inch while popping up from their slide, that shouldn’t be an out, that’s just physics. If you are going to continue with the challenge system, there needs to be some sort of grace for that. If you blatantly appear to be off the bag, sure, it’s an out, otherwise the system needs to be fixed. Also, managers don’t get to delay games while their video room wires in whether or not to challenge. You get a normal time between plays to decide. — Julian Mei, London, Ontario****The biggest improvement MLB could make is to institute an electronic strike zone. Aside from providing ultimate consistency and fairness to both pitchers and batters (and fans), the electronic strike zone would eliminate the hidden, time-consuming gamesmanship practiced by pitchers, batters, catchers, and bench jockeys as they try to influence the umpires’ calls. Statisticians at Stanford have determined that home plate umpires are biased by game situations when calling balls and strikes (e.g., the same 3-1 pitch with the bases loaded is more likely to be called a strike than ball four). There is simply no rational objection to leaving this crucial in-game decision in the capable hands of a perfectly fair, consistent, objective, and mistake-free app. If we want to tinker with the rules to make the game faster and possibly more interesting, how about calling a batter out if he takes a second strike? Batters need to swing away more; it’s not really a lot of fun watching a pitcher get worked for a walk. Bill Veeck suggested going to three balls and two strikes about 60 years ago. This is less radical, and coupled with consistently called balls and strikes, would do much to speed up the action and lower game times. — Andreas Lord, Brookline, Mass.****A young person like myself is probably as likely to buy a cable subscription as they are to buy a landline or a fax machine. A move toward cord cutting and on-demand, online streaming is the future of sports watching. MLB is there with the excellent MLB.TV package, but its archaic blackout rules make it nearly useless for people who want to watch their hometown team. For a sport that is failing to catch on with the generation coming of age, this has to be fixed. — Jake Field, Los Angeles****Trap door under the pitcher’s mound. When it’s time for a pitching change, the manager pushes a button and the pitcher suddenly falls through the trap door into an underground chamber. — Stephen A. Silver, San Francisco****Replay. Let’s wildly fix the replay system. Don’t allow teams to review a play to decide if they want to challenge or not. Managers used to run out and argue based on what they saw live on the field in real time – a challenge should work the same way. If it takes 20 minutes and 2,037,503,248 views to make up your mind, you’re just guessing anyway, and the original call should stand. I understand the point is to get it right, but if it’s that close, everyone will have a different opinion of what “right” is. Enough of this nonsense of calling a runner out when he loses contact with the bag for a fraction of a second during a slide. That is not what the spirit of replay is for. If the runner beats the tag or throw, and he doesn’t slide past the bag, he’s safe. Coming an inch off the bag while sliding over it, that’s only viewable on super slow-mo replay, should not cause the runner to be out.Unrelated to pace of play, but important nonetheless. Baseball is an industry set to make $10 billion this year. Invest some of that back into the players and figure out why Tommy John surgeries have skyrocketed, and what can be done to prevent them. Protect players and the kids that grow up dreaming about being major league pitchers one day. — Erika Crawford, Washington, D.C.****Move the fences out. More potential triples, the most exciting offensive event, and fewer fly ball outs. — Tode Oshin, Portland, Ore.****Banked Runs. Either manager at any time before the seventh inning, can call time out and say, “I will bank [x number] of the runs that the team has scored to this point.” [I will bank 5 of our 7 runs.] No more runs may be banked or used by that team in that game, but the opposing manager may use any runs he has in the bank. Those runs will be deposited in the team’s account and shown on the space provided on the scoreboard *total banked runs.* Banked runs may be used against any team, before the seventh inning. Banked Runs would not affect individual stats such as E.R.A., R.B.I. etc. — Marcus Rector, Reno, Nev.****Drop the designated hitter, bring back intentional walks, and kick the Cardinals out of the league. — Joseph Serge, Milwaukee****One of the reasons I like soccer is that the players, for the most part, are in charge of strategy while on the field, since there are no breaks in play. The coach occasionally shouts instructions as a player runs by, but for the most part, the players must make their own decisions. Why should a coach or manager be able to stop play and walk to the mound to talk with the pitcher? Did they not prepare ahead of time? Does the coach/manager not trust his players? My solution: no manager trips to the mound unless you’re making a pitching change. Let the players play the game. This would increase action, as a pitcher who is not given additional information just before facing a particular opponent may be more likely to make a mistake, resulting in a hit, resulting in more action. To take it a step further, why does the manager need to go to the mound to make a pitching change. Just signal from the dugout and be done with it. — Keith Snodgrass, Seattle****Make double plays eligible even when there are two outs. The result would be a loss of a third batter the following inning. — John Thompson, Princeton, N.J.****Turn back the clock to say 1845 or 1866, back when scores in games routinely soared into the double digits. I am not calling for a return to the days when the batter could call for a high pitch or a low pitch. I suggest that what fans want is more scoring, more running of the bases. Strike outs? Meh. Change the role of the pitcher to a human pitching machine. The pitcher’s job is to deliver the ball in the strike zone so the batter can hit it. That’s what the role was in the beginning and what will return the game to something fun to watch from the stands. How many fans can tell a four seamer from a two seamer from the stands? Throw the ball and hit the ball. Encourage hotspot walks or strike outs. Radical proposal? Right. The game needs some radical thinking. Do not expect anything to rejuvenate the game from players and executives who make millions playing the game the way it is. — Robert Zimring, Elkins Park, Pa.****The Cubs finally win a World Series and now we decide baseball is broken? Let’s have the Cubs win another before we declare baseball in trouble. — Dennis Shields, Platteville, Wis.Advertisement