AdvertisementSupported byExtra BasesWith so many players who can play multiple positions, Los Angeles is making it work, as usual, as it seeks a sixth N.L. West title in a row.By Tyler KepnerPHILADELPHIA — For 96 games this season, Manny Machado played only shortstop for the Baltimore Orioles. A two-time Gold Glove winner at third base, Machado had insisted on playing short for the Orioles in his final year before free agency.Yet four games into his career with the Los Angeles Dodgers, who acquired him during the All-Star break for five prospects, Machado was back at third, quickly grasping how much his new team values versatility.“That’s been in my back pocket the whole time,” Machado said Monday at Citizens Bank Park after a victory here over the Phillies. “At this point it’s go out there and try to do everything possible to win, whatever’s going to be best for the team. I came here for a couple of months, and it was to try to help this team win in whatever way I could — whether it’s third base, outfield, second, wherever it is.”Machado was probably joking; he has never played second base or the outfield since the Orioles drafted him third over all from a Miami high school in 2010. He did play right field once, he said, at age 17 in a Connie Mack League.“That was a long time ago,” he said. “I don’t think I can do it in the big leagues, though, but whatever.”For the Dodgers, “whatever” can mean almost anything. At each position, they’ve had more than one player make at least 23 starts.“The organization always talks about depth, depth, depth,” said Enrique Hernandez, who has started at seven defensive spots this season and even pitched here on Tuesday, taking the loss in a 16-inning marathon.“It tells you how much unselfishness there is in the clubhouse with all these guys willing to move around for the good of the team,” Hernandez added. “For Manny to come here and say, ‘I just want to win, I don’t care where I play, and if I have to move around, I’ll move around,’ that says a lot about him. He could easily just say: ‘Hey, I’m in a big market now. I want to be the shortstop for the Dodgers. I don’t want to move around. I want to build up my case for free agency.’ But I think playing short and third is only going to help him. The game is evolving, and versatility has a lot of value nowadays.”The Dodgers put their regular third baseman, Justin Turner, on the disabled list Monday with a strained right groin. With Machado at third, Hernandez and Chris Taylor have been playing shortstop. Right fielder Yasiel Puig is also on the disabled list with a right oblique strain, and shortstop Corey Seager is out for the year after Tommy John surgery.But the Dodgers are making it work, as usual, and reclaimed first place in the National League West just before the All-Star break. Adding Machado sent a powerful signal that they intend to stay there and win their sixth division title in a row.“We’re spoiled, there’s no way of getting around that,” said Clayton Kershaw, the ace left-hander, who is healthy again after trips to the disabled list for biceps tendinitis and a lower back strain.“Being in the city that we’re in, with the demand for winning there is, we’re spoiled in that we just expect that stuff to happen now, which is a great feeling to have. The expectations that we have to win, they are there and there’s pressure that comes from that. But at the same time, you see Manny and where he came from in Baltimore, the situation that team’s in, and you see how excited he is when he gets here. You can tell that he’s really excited to be a part of something that has a chance to win.”Kershaw, who can opt out of his contract this winter, added that he wished more teams operated the way the Dodgers do.“You see it throughout the league, even more so now with all these teams tanking, it’s just not good for the game,” he said. “So for me personally to be on a team that has won five consecutive division titles — I think I’ve been to the playoffs seven times out of 10 years — you can’t take that stuff for granted, and I know I don’t. I mean, I know we’re supposed to win and we need to win, but I’d rather be in this situation than what it could be.”Kershaw nearly won his first championship last fall, dazzling in the first and last games of the World Series but struggling in Game 5 in Houston. By the time Kershaw entered Game 7 in relief, the Astros had flattened starter Yu Darvish, the Dodgers’ major trade acquisition last July, on their way to an easy victory.Machado, 26, was the prize of this nonwaiver deadline. This has been his best season, with career highs in batting average (.311), on-base percentage (.385) and slugging percentage (.561) heading into this weekend’s four-game series in Atlanta. He is also striking out less and walking more.“There’s no panic in his game,” Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said. “He just has an innate ability to stay in the strike zone, and by and large he walks a ton and doesn’t punch out. When you have the ability to put the bat on the ball, hit it from line to line and swing at strikes, it’s lethal.”Machado started his Dodgers career with three road series, and should make his home debut on Monday against Milwaukee. So far, he likes his new surroundings.“Everybody I’ve met here has been awesome,” Machado said. “It’s a great group of guys. I’m just excited to be a part of this.”Jack Morris and Alan Trammell will go into the Hall of Fame as teammates on Sunday, part of a deep class that also includes Chipper Jones, Jim Thome, Vladimir Guerrero and Trevor Hoffman. Morris and Trammell will represent the Detroit Tigers, whose dominant 1984 championship team will finally have a player representative in Cooperstown.The Tigers were 104-58 that season and kept rolling through a five-game World Series victory over San Diego, with Trammell hitting .450 to win the Most Valuable Player Award. At the Hall of Fame, Trammell will be reunited with his World Series ring, which he stopped wearing a few years ago.“I’m kind of hyper and I kept banging it on things, and I didn’t want to chip it,” Trammell said on a conference call in the past week. “So I put it in a safe deposit box, but now I have actually donated it to the Hall of Fame — and it’s in my case, so it’ll be shown there.”Morris said the Tigers were especially driven to win that ring. They had matched up well the previous year with the Baltimore Orioles, who went on to win the World Series, and believed they belonged in that class.“We thought to ourselves, if these guys can win the Series, we have to prove to the rest of the baseball world that we could beat them and we can beat anybody,” he said. “Going into spring training in ’84, that was a special kind of motivation for us. We wanted it.”The Tigers showed that with a mind-bending 35-5 start that included a no-hitter by Morris on NBC’s first Saturday “Game of the Week” in April. Six months later, Morris finished with two complete-game victories in the World Series — but he actually wanted more.“It’s funny, because I was at a round table discussion once with Alan Trammell and Lou Whitaker and that subject came up,” Morris said. “And I actually said, ‘My hero in my early Detroit days was Mickey Lolich because he won three World Series games in 1968. I wanted to win three, and that would have meant pitching in Game 7.’ And Whitaker looked at me and said: ‘What are you, nuts? We didn’t want to go back to San Diego!’ I never had that chance, but I was looking forward to it.”Only two pitchers since Morris have won two complete games in the same World Series, and both were named M.V.P.: Bret Saberhagen for the Royals in 1985 and Orel Hershiser for the Dodgers in 1988. Morris got his World Series M.V.P. Award for Minnesota in 1991, when he won Games 1 and 7, the last a 10-inning shutout.With Morris and Trammell in Cooperstown, the 1981 Dodgers are now the only championship team before 1997 that did not have a player who became a Hall of Famer. That Dodgers team included many players with long and successful careers — Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela, Jerry Reuss, Dusty Baker and so on — but only Manager Tommy Lasorda has reached the Hall of Fame.When the Oakland Athletics added Jeurys Familia to their bullpen in a trade with the Mets this month, they doubled down on right-handed relievers with overwhelming sinkers. The other is their closer, Blake Treinen, who throws his sinker so hard that he was a $2,000 question on “Jeopardy!” in February 2016:“The Nationals’ Blake Treinen has hit 100 MPH with this type of pitch, that gets its name from its downward motion.”Treinen, who was traded to the A’s last summer, said he learned his pitches as a boy by using a training baseball endorsed by Roger Clemens with markings for Clemens’s grips. The two-seamer — or sinker — was a good fit.“They had those fingerprints on ’em: Here’s his slider, here’s his curveball, here’s his changeup, here’s his two-seamer, here’s his four-seamer,” Treinen said recently. “I was just like, ‘Oh, the two-seamer.’ I remember in like third grade I was throwing ’em with my dad, and it just felt more comfortable than a four-seamer in my hand.”He said he did not know why his sinker does what it does — “It just does.” “I don’t like to think about it,” he added. “I don’t know the science behind it. I just throw it and I know what works for me, so I just try to stick with it.”Treinen said he had never mastered pinpoint sinker command, the way the Hall of Famer Greg Maddux and Corey Kluber, Cleveland’s two-time Cy Young Award winner, have. But the pitch, which averages more than 97 miles per hour, had helped Treinen convert 26 of 30 save chances through Wednesday with a 1.04 earned run average — the best in the majors among pitchers with at least 50 innings.Frank Chen first saw Chien-Ming Wang pitch in 2005, when Wang was a rookie for the Yankees. Wang won eight games that season, and 19 in each of the next two years, becoming a figure of great national pride in Taiwan.By 2013, Wang’s career had been ravaged by injuries. Chen met him that year, through a mutual friend, and they had dinner after a minor league game in Moosic, Pa. After the meal, Chen noticed Wang awkwardly contorting his 6-foot-4 frame to fit into a small rental car.“That image struck me,” said Chen, a Taiwanese-Canadian filmmaker. “For me, he was still a national icon, but he had to endure all of these lonely minor league stints just to try to get back to where he thought he belonged. That became the impetus for the movie.”Chen’s 99-minute documentary film, “Late Life: The Chien-Ming Wang Story,” will be featured at the Asian-American International Film Festival on Sunday at the Village East Cinema in New York. Wang will be there, and is also scheduled to throw out the first pitch at the Staten Island Yankees game on Monday. Chen followed Wang through 21 cities in making the film, which will have a small theatrical release in New York in mid-October.“It’s a story that kind of captivated an entire nation,” Chen said. “Just his rise and the fall that followed — he bounced around to six or seven teams, and that’s the part a lot of people didn’t get to see.”Wang, now 38, appeared in the majors for four teams but pitched for four other organizations between appearances for the Toronto Blue Jays in 2013 and the Kansas City Royals in 2016. He consulted this spring with Yankees minor leaguers, teaching his signature sinker, but has still not officially retired.Last Aug. 1 in Boston, in a cab to my hotel after an electrifying game between the Red Sox and the Cleveland Indians, I got a call on my cellphone. It was Bob Costas, who had broadcast the game for MLB Network. The final home run had touched down some 90 minutes earlier, but Costas still could not shake his excitement. He needed to celebrate a regular-season thriller by talking more about it with a like-minded fan of the game.That, to me, defines Costas, 66, who receives the Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasting excellence at the Hall of Fame this weekend. He has covered nearly every sport, hosted a late-night interview show and appeared on “Saturday Night Live.” But Costas’s true passion is baseball, and on a personal note, I owe him a great deal.I started writing about baseball as a teenager, publishing a monthly magazine for a small subscriber base and a few media folks whose work I admired. I sent copies to Costas at a general NBC address, uncertain if he would ever see them.Yet over the next few years, every few months, Costas would send me a postcard — always with an old-time broadcaster on the front — encouraging me to keep going, insisting I had what it took to make a living covering baseball. That kind of support, from someone so prominent and talented, helped me confidently navigate a grown-up world and kept me focused on this career path.Most people know Costas for his precision with words, good humor and erudite insights. I am lucky to know him for his genuine kindness and his boyish affection for the game we both love. Congratulations, my friend.Tyler Kepner has been national baseball writer since 2010. He joined The Times in 2000 and covered the Mets for two seasons, then covered the Yankees from 2002 to 2009.  @TylerKepner Advertisement