AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:Judge Brett Kavanaugh, the Supreme Court nominee, and the woman who has accused him of sexual assault are scheduled to appear before the Senate Judiciary Committee in a public hearing on Monday.The committee had planned to vote on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination this Thursday, but a confirmation that once seemed inevitable is now in limbo.Christine Blasey Ford has said he sexually assaulted her at a party when they were teenagers in the 1980s. Judge Kavanaugh has denied the allegations.• Echoes of Anita Hill: The case has drawn comparisons to the 1991 testimony of Ms. Hill, who accused the future Justice Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment. Our correspondents in Washington traced the similarities and differences.• Opinion: In an Op-Ed for The Times, Ms. Hill argues that the Senate Judiciary Committee has a chance to do better by the country than when she testified nearly three decades ago.President Trump, emboldened by good economic news in the U.S., said on Monday that he would impose tariffs on an additional $200 billion worth of Chinese goods.Added to previous tariffs, the new levies would mean that nearly half of all Chinese imports into the U.S. will soon face extra fees. Mr. Trump also made clear he might go even further, taxing remaining Chinese imports “if China takes retaliatory action against our farmers or other industries.”The president has said that tariffs will save American factories, but history suggests otherwise, our correspondent writes.• The markets: The Chinese stock market opened at a four-year low today before rebounding, and other markets are largely shrugging off the trade news. Here’s a snapshot of global exchanges today.• Also from the administration: Mr. Trump plans to cap the number of refugees who can resettle in the U.S. next year at 30,000, the lowest total for the refugee program since its creation in 1980.The Carolinas were struggling to cope with the effects of record rainfall as the remnants of Hurricane Florence moved out of the region. At least 31 deaths have been attributed to the storm.The hurricane has served as a reminder, as seen in New Orleans after Katrina, that low-income residents are particularly vulnerable.The flooding has also threatened Superfund sites, the hazardous-waste removal projects mandated by the federal government, as well as chemical plants and industrial hog farms. Our maps show the dangers across the hardest-hit states.• Maps: Look up rainfall totals, power failures and wind speeds.• Video: Before-and-after scenes show the physical damage from the storm.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea arrived in North Korea today for his third summit meeting with Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader.Their goal is to fashion a political statement this year to formally declare the end of the Korean War of 1950-53.• Why it matters: The Trump administration has strong reservations about such a declaration, because it wants North Korea to first halt its nuclear weapons program.• In buying Time magazine, Marc Benioff has joined the list of technology leaders who own media companies. He spoke to The Times (via text messages) about the deal.• Yusaku Maezawa, a billionaire fashion entrepreneur from Japan, will be the first tourist to travel around the moon aboard a rocket built by Elon Musk’s company SpaceX.• Apple’s new iPhones start at $999 and $1,099, but their superb cameras and screens make them worth the high prices, our reviewer writes.Tips for a more fulfilling life.• Here’s some gear to help teens kindle their creativity.• Improve your next flight with these small tips.• Recipe of the day: The classic plum torte has been delighting readers since 1983.• History in iceThe Great European Famine, the waves of Black Death, agricultural crises from the 14th century — all are recorded in the pollen and dust found in glacial ice in the Alps.Here’s more from this week’s Science section.• In memoriamAlan Abel, a professional hoaxer, gleefully duped Americans for more than half a century, even convincing The Times in 1980 that he had died. That actually happened on Friday, when he was 94.• Strawberry saboteur in AustraliaNeedles have been found inside store-bought fruit across the country, leading to widespread safety concerns and a hunt for the culprits.• TV celebrates itselfHBO’s “Game of Thrones” took home the best drama Emmy Award for the third time in the past four years, and Amazon’s “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” was named best comedy. Read our recap of Monday’s awards.The ceremony joked about the entertainment industry’s lack of diversity, but then emphasized the point by handing out the first 10 awards to white entertainers. Our critic wasn’t impressed.Here’s the full list of winners, and photographs from the red carpet.• Best of late-night TVSeth Meyers noted the legal wrangling involving President Trump’s former campaign chairman and the special counsel: “Paul Manafort on Friday struck a deal to cooperate with the Mueller investigation. And then Trump struck a door, two walls and Eric.”• Quotation of the day“I am stunned that this is happening again. But it is not surprising because our culture has not completely dealt with inequality between men and women.”— Barbara Boxer, a former Democratic senator and congresswoman who urged lawmakers to give a fair hearing in 1991 to Anita Hill, who accused Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.• What we’re readingRandy Archibold, our deputy sports editor, recommends this article in The Ringer: “With the Boston Red Sox favored for a deep run in baseball’s postseason, and setting up for a series against the New York Yankees this week, I found this profile of the retired Red Sox ace Pedro Martinez entertaining and illuminating. As an analyst on MLB Network, he’s become a blunt-talking ‘Charles Barkley without the raging insecurity.’ ”Please indulge us today as we tell a Back Story that’s close to home: our own.On this day in 1851, the first edition of The New York Times was printed. (See the front page here.)Then called The New-York Daily Times, the paper was founded by Henry Jarvis Raymond and George Jones.The first edition cost one penny and lacked any imagery or color.The founders declared that the newspaper would be issued every morning but Sunday, “for an indefinite number of years to come.” (Ten years later, The Times was among several papers that started Sunday editions to accommodate demand for news of the Civil War.)During a time when sensationalist journalism was commonplace in media, The Times vowed to avoid such tactics in favor of neutral, fact-based reporting.“We do not believe that everything in Society is either exactly right or exactly wrong,” Mr. Raymond said in the introductory article of the paper’s first edition. “What is good we desire to preserve and improve; what is evil, to exterminate, or reform.”Throughout the years, the paper would shorten its name to The New-York Times and eventually drop the hyphen in favor of its current style. Read more about the history of The Times here.Adriana Lacy wrote today’s Back Story._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc.Advertisement