AdvertisementSupported byYankees 7, Twins 2By Pat BorziMINNEAPOLIS — The most significant development of the day for the Yankees happened long before they beat the Minnesota Twins, 7-2, Monday night at Target Field.Around 2 p.m. Central time, amid an afternoon of reunions among current Yankees and former Yankees farmhands, Aaron Judge took batting practice on the field for the first time since he fractured his right wrist on July 26. Judge took five rounds in the cage, hitting several balls into the seats. It was an encouraging sight for Manager Aaron Boone, who said he thought Judge — already out much longer than the three-week timetable originally put forth by the Yankees — might return before the end of the season.“We’re ahead of schedule, I feel like,” Judge said. “We’re on the track. Just got to keep moving forward until the day I get out there.”What’s next? Provided Judge’s wrist holds up, he will take slightly longer hitting sessions each day until he can take batting practice with the rest of the team. After that, Judge may take part in simulated games at the Yankees complex in Tampa. Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre begins play Tuesday in the best-of-five International League championship series, but it is not clear if Judge could progress quickly enough to join them.“We’re not at that point where we want to throw him into games yet,” Boone said. “We just want to get through the next couple of days here as he ramps up the amount of swings out on the field, and continue to build that momentum.”The early team workout session also provided an opportunity for the former Yankees Tyler Austin, Jake Cave and Gregorio Petit, now with the Twins, to catch up with some familiar faces from the Yankee system. Austin, who was traded to Minnesota for Lance Lynn on July 30, has seven home runs but missed his fourth consecutive game with a stiff back. Cave, traded in March, began the season in Class AAA and replaced the injured Byron Buxton in center field about two months ago. Cave checked off the names of old teammates now at Target Field: Judge, Greg Bird, Kyle Higashioka, Tyler Wade, Gleyber Torres and Miguel Andujar.“It’s cool to be able to see them on a major-league field,” Cave said. “It didn’t take a rocket scientist to see Andujar was going to rake. He did it on every level. Higgy was really, really good behind the plate and worked really hard.”Following Sunday’s 3-2 loss in Seattle, the Yankees were surely happy to be visiting Minnesota, a club it has dominated since 2002 — and especially recently. With their eighth consecutive regular-season win over the Twins, the Yankees improved to 20-4 against them since July 2015, including a victory in last year’s wild-card playoff game. J.A. Happ, 6-0 with a 2.70 earned run average in eight starts as a Yankee, worked six scoreless innings for the victory as the Yankees moved three games ahead of idle Oakland for the first American League wild card spot.The Yankees had reached their hotel about midnight, and they looked like a tired lineup early on, stranding runners in scoring position the first five innings against Twins starter Kyle Gibson. Boone made one significant change in his lineup, giving Bird a rare start, with the hot-hitting Luke Voit getting a day off to rest a stiff back. It failed to help the Yankees, as Bird went 0 for 3 with two walks, dropping his average to .195.The scoreless game finally got some action when Gary Sanchez broke through in the sixth, driving an inside sinker from Gibson into the third deck in left for his 16th homer, which was estimated to have traveled 460 feet by MLB’s Statcast system. Sanchez had been 3 for 27 since returning from a right groin strain.“Hopeful tonight is the start of him getting rolling a little bit for us,” Boone said, “because if he’s going well, he can change the game.”Gibson departed one batter later, and the Yankees feasted off the Twins bullpen in a six-run seventh. Alan Busenitz walked the first two batters, and consecutive doubles by Andujar, Giancarlo Stanton and Didi Gregorius delivered four runs. Andujar’s double was his 40th, tying him with Bob Meusel for the third-most by a Yankee rookie (Joe DiMaggio leads with 44 in 1936 and Hideki Matsui hit 42 in 2003).For Gregorius, it was his first hit since returning Sept. 7 from a left heel contusion. Torres singled in the fifth run, and Andrew McCutchen added a sacrifice fly.Advertisement