AdvertisementSupported byLacey Ann McKeon and Steven Clark Rockefeller III were married April 6 at St. Joseph’s Church in West Orange, N.J. The Rev. Msgr. Michael E. Kelly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride and groom, both 31, met at Boston College, from which each graduated.Mrs. Rockefeller is a production manager at MLB Network in Secaucus, N.J.She is a daughter of Ann C. McKeon and John F. McKeon of West Orange. The bride’s father, the mayor of West Orange from 1998 to 2010, is a Democratic state assemblyman who represents the 27th District. He is also a senior partner in Hardin, Kundla, McKeon and Poletto, a legal defense firm, with offices in Springfield, N.J., and New York. Her mother, who was a stay-at-home parent, retired as a part-time lawyer from the same law firm.Mr. Rockefeller is a commercial real estate broker at Cushman & Wakefield in New York. He is also a member of the Rockefeller Family Office’s Operating Committee in New York.He is a son of Kimberly Eckles Rockefeller and Mr. Rockefeller Jr. of Pleasantville, N.Y. The groom’s parents are venture capitalists focusing on immune oncology, blockchain application and city-center development in China. His mother is on the board of the Friends of the Rockefeller State Park Preserve in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. His father is a member of the Rockefeller University Council in New York, an international advisory group committed to the advancement of science.The groom is a great-grandson of the late Nelson A. Rockefeller, a former vice president of the United States and governor of New York.The couple, who met in 2005 as freshmen, socialized in the same circle of friends through college. Ms. McKeon said everyone always thought they were supposed to end up together, but she would brush them off. Mr. Rockefeller, on the other hand, said he always knew she was special. In 2013, when they both lived in New York and reconnected, she came around to his point of view. The day after Thanksgiving in 2017, as they walked along the reservoir in the South Mountain Reservation in West Orange, Mr. Rockefeller proposed.Advertisement