AdvertisementSupported byBy Joe BresciaWhen the MLB Network begins coverage of the World Baseball Classic on Monday, who better to analyze curveballs, sliders and splitters from around the world for the channel than John Smoltz? Smoltz, who was inducted into baseball’s Hall of Fame in 2015, won 213 games and saved 154 games in his career, making him the only pitcher with more than 200 wins and 150 saves. Smoltz, 49, pitched all but one of his 21 seasons with the Braves, retiring with az 3.33 E.R.A. and 3,084 strikeouts.He said he did not think the timing of the classic — in the middle of spring training — would be a hindrance for the players, who make adjustments all the time during the season.“I don’t know if there’s ever going to be a perfect time,” Smoltz said. “You learn how to adjust in baseball. That’s part of the game. The physical part is one aspect. The mental part is a huge part of being able to adjust and adapt. That’s what the W.B.C. calls for. If you’re mentally prepared for it, you’ll do fine.”Smoltz said he thought the United States was overdue to win the tournament, or at least to reach the last series. The Americans have never finished higher than fourth, when they lost to Japan in the 2009 semifinals. “What we need is for Team U.S.A. to get to the finals,” Smoltz said. “For all the countries that have proven they can get there and win it, it would be nice if we could win one.”Q. Why has Team U.S.A. not done well in the W.B.C.?A. Most of the American players are not used to playing year-round baseball. You see other countries that play winter ball or that participate in the Caribbean World Series. The American players are not accustomed to it. But that doesn’t mean that they wouldn’t be able to learn to adjust. This World Baseball Classic is all about which guys — early, in typical spring-training fashion — are at their best, so it’s kind of a Catch-22. You’re trying to get ready for the season, but at the same time, you’re trying to be at your best early on. You get to the finals by executing a lot better earlier on.Are you concerned about the possibility of players’ getting injured during the W.B.C. and ruining their season?Injuries were the first concern when the W.B.C. started, but it hasn’t been a problem. I don’t see it as a concern. Players learn how to prepare and adapt.What do you think about the new rule that allows managers to signal for an intentional walk and the other proposed changes to speed up the game?I’m fine with rule changes that enhance the game for the future. Other sports do it. Football and basketball have done it. People get over it. They deal with it. Then as time goes on, you’d never even know it was changed. Baseball has a longer history of staying status quo. There’s going to be an initial reaction and frustration to the changes. But people will be fine. The players will be fine. The game needs to move and continue to be the No. 1 sport in America’s eyes. That’s what the commissioner is trying to do and enhance that, and I’m all for it. It’s small steps. If you give players time to adjust and change, they will. It’s no different than the other rule changes, like sliding into second. At first it’s a problem; then at the end of the year, you don’t have any issues.The season hasn’t started, and Alex Reyes of the Cardinals, considered by experts to be the top pitching prospect in baseball, needed Tommy John surgery. You had the same surgery. Any thoughts about how to protect young pitchers? It’s an epidemic that we’re not really addressing. We’re just dealing with it. We’re training in a different way. We’re preparing players in a different way. They throw harder than they’ve ever thrown. The injuries are more than they’ve ever been. Nobody seems to care that much because we’re producing these dynamic arms. When that stops, watch what happens. I’m not saying they’re not trying to prevent injuries to arms. But it’s like a Band-Aid. Just put it on and he’ll be fine. That’s what’s wrong with parents and kids that think there’s no big deal if you need Tommy John today. It is a big deal.What pitcher reminds you of a young John Smoltz?They’re way more talented than I was at that age, but Stephen Strasburg and Zack Wheeler. Maybe Wheeler a little bit more with his delivery. Strasburg has that inverted W [arm action that generally results in the elbows being above the shoulder line] similar to mine.Do you have a team that you think will make the most progress this year?I think the Dodgers are equipped to make a deep run. They have a lot of depth, and they have young talent. If they stay healthy, I think they can be fantastic.What do you think about the metrics that show a large increase in pitchers throwing curveballs?The curveball is one of the hardest pitches to hit, even if you know it’s coming. It’s one of the forgotten pitches, because everyone wants power pitching. The power slider, the split, the fastball. With the potentially new strike zone, that will promote more fastball-curveball scenarios. Rich Hill figured out that throwing the curve at a variety of angles and the spin makes it very difficult for the timing of the hitter to get locked. I would say it can be easier on the arm than the slider or splitter. But any pitch has to be thrown correctly. If it’s thrown incorrectly, it can be a detriment to your arm.It happens every year. A player goes through the arbitration process and is offended by what management says. This year, Dellin Betances was annoyed by his hearing. Any way to avoid hard feelings?That’s a part of the business where you would hope there is a better way to prepare the player. It’s nothing personal. Maybe some older players could have helped Betances out before he went through the process so he would know what to expect.When do you think the Braves will be ready to be strong contenders?Next year might be a nice start to being competitive. This year, they might surprise people. I see them competing for a title in two years. Two years gives the young players they have time to grow.What do you think of SunTrust Park, the Braves’ new stadium? I haven’t been there yet. But I hear hitters complaining already. So I think it’s going to be pitcher-friendly.If you did not become a baseball player, what career would you have chosen?I was heading for something in a financial field. Something with numbers. Probably an accountant.Advertisement