AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirThe game can be slow-paced. National ratings are nothing like the N.F.L.’s. And millennial fans often prefer faster-moving sports.Yet, almost in spite of itself, Major League Baseball is a thriving $10 billion business.Baseball is succeeding thanks in large part to its national and local cable television deals; an innovative digital business that is a technological leader; and the continued faith of its fans, who accounted for a combined attendance of about 74 million in 2016.And this week, Major League Baseball reached a new collective bargaining agreement with the players’ union, adding five more years of labor peace to the two decades of tranquillity that have prevailed since a long, debilitating strike wiped out the 1994 World Series.“I don’t believe it is a coincidence that our explosive growth began once we quit fighting with each other,” Rob Manfred, baseball’s commissioner, said in a telephone interview on Friday. “It’s the bedrock of our economic renaissance.”Robert Boland, director of the sports administration program at Ohio University, said, “You can’t underestimate what a healthy collective bargaining relationship can do to make a sport grow.”Baseball’s business success does not obscure continuing problems such as the lack of diversity among its managers and front-office executives; the small percentage of African-American players on team rosters; and the stubborn length of games.But there is no question that the former commissioner Bud Selig, who confronted — sometimes wobblingly — the challenges of the steroid era, and Manfred have turned baseball into a lucrative enterprise whose size is not far from that of the N.F.L., the behemoth of American sports, with its $13 billion in revenue.By comparison, the N.B.A.’s revenue is estimated at about $8 billion.“For all his imperfections, Selig innovated and brought the game labor peace,” said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College who has written widely about the business of sports. And Manfred, said Zimbalist, is “a very good administrator who knows how to promote the game and manage the industry.”Running baseball — and building its revenue — is simpler with labor peace; it assures fans, sponsors and television networks of the stability of the sport. And the sport’s increasingly tough drug rules, along with the widespread sense that the use of performance enhancers has significantly diminished, has also bolstered the sport’s image.Instead, in the past few years, it has been the N.F.L.’s turn to be troubled by jolting crises, such as the epidemic of concussions and the repeated instances of domestic violence.In addition to its relative freedom from scandal, baseball is also now awash in television money. Regional sports networks have been making lengthy, billion-dollar rights-fee deals with teams and sometimes handing them stakes in the channels in the continuing belief that devoted fans will want to watch a long season of broadcasts.So the Los Angeles Dodgers are getting $8.35 billion in local TV money over 25 years, the Los Angeles Angels $3 billion over 20 years and the Philadelphia Phillies $2.5 billion over 25 years.And to show the sport nationally, ESPN, Fox and TBS together pay baseball about $1.5 billion annually.In addition, last August, a part of baseball’s digital business generated a big financial return. The Walt Disney Company agreed to pay $1 billion for a 33 percent stake in BamTech, which streams baseball games and HBO programming. BamTech was spun off from MLB Advanced Media, a joint internet venture among all 30 teams, and its experience in streaming baseball games has made it an ideal business as the cable television bundle unravels and people turn to programming that is streamed on the internet.Major league teams will share in nearly half the money from Disney, which said that it would use BamTech to introduce an ESPN-branded subscription service.“That was found money,” Boland said of the Disney deal. “The BamTech sale was extraordinary.” Boland added that Major League Baseball and its teams are clearly better at generating revenue than they were in the past.“It’s a higher level of sophistication,” he said.Randy Levine, the longtime president of the Yankees, said he was not surprised at the growth of baseball’s business. The Yankees have been at the forefront of that revival, in part by creating the YES Network, which provided a model for other teams wanting ownership of the channels showing their games.“Baseball is still the American pastime,” he said. “It’s a long season — from March to October. It’s a long-running story that people follow almost every single day. It has history, the pursuit of records, the comparisons of players from decade to decade. All that lends a romanticism to baseball that maybe some sports don’t have.”Manfred said that one key to baseball’s continued appeal would be finding the most effective ways to reach millennials, the demographic that is now critical to every sport.“If you run a business and you’re not thinking about how that business appeals to millennials, you’re missing the boat,” he said. He described how baseball teams try to sell the ballpark experience to millennials and how the sport is seeking to convert millennial users of baseball’s hugely successful app, AtBat, whose average user is around 30 years old, into television viewers of the game. The average age of that latter group is around 50.But Zimbalist said he did not believe that paring the length of a game — a subject of continued concern to Manfred — would be the way to get millennials to watch more TV broadcasts or go to more games. He said that reaching them “has more to do with nuanced cultural traits and the multiplicity of other video options, not cutting the length of a game from 3 hours 3 minutes to 2:57.”Zimbalist asserted it would not help even “if Manfred got the game down to 2:40.”Indeed, Game 7 of the World Series lasted 4:28 and ended with the Chicago Cubs winning the title for the first time in 108 years. Forty million people watched on television. It was very good business for baseball.Advertisement