AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonTOKYO — These days, many of Cuba’s best baseball players can be found in the major leagues in the United States. And until Cuba changes its stance on defectors, those players will not be allowed to represent the island nation in the World Baseball Classic.As a result, this year’s Cuban team in the Classic has a less-than-overwhelming roster. There is no Abreu, for instance, no Gurriel, Chapman, no Cespedes.Well, actually there is a Cespedes, but it is Yoelkis Cespedes, the 19-year-old half brother of Yoenis, the Mets’ slugging outfielder and one of the more dynamic players in the majors. Both hit and throw from the right side. And while Yoelkis is not yet Yoenis, his performance in Cuba’s first two games of the Classic has impressed major league scouts who have gathered here to watch this first-round phase of the tournament.In Cuba’s opening game against Japan on Tuesday, which Cuba lost, Cespedes had three hits, including a hard-hit double to left. He also showed off his arm in the outfield, something his older brother has been doing for years.Then, in Game 2, a 6-0 victory over China, he collected another double — this one off the right-field wall.“I was relaxed because my teammates told me to play relaxed, the way I play in Cuba, and I was able to do it,” Cespedes said through an interpreter.Baseball players in Cuba are relatively cloistered from view, at least compared with players in the United States and other countries. Several major league scouts said they had seen Cespedes play only once before, in February in the Caribbean Series, when he collected five hits, including a double, in five games. In that series, he also made a diving shoestring catch and then doubled up a runner on first base.That play attracted notice on social media, and the younger Cespedes seemed to welcome the attention. “I know I have a lot of followers in New York” because of that play, he said. “A lot of people have been talking about my arm.”Cespedes, who plays for Granma, one of the most prominent teams in Cuba’s top league, is 12 years younger than his half brother. His physique is also different: Yoenis has a very sturdy 5-foot-10-inch, 220-pound frame. Yoelkis is a little shorter and not quite as thickly built.Still, his showing here suggests that he might have inherited some of Yoenis’s attributes, including quick hands, that strong arm and an ability to hit the ball the other way.“He looks way better than when I saw him at the Caribbean Series,” said one scout, who asked that his name not be used because he was not authorized to talk publicly about players he was scouting. “He’s still small, but he has a plus arm and is a good runner.’’ He said that Cespedes had also “showed me some pop” when he connected at the plate.Though relations between Cuba and the United States have warmed in recent years, players who want to play American baseball must first defect. The older Cespedes chose that option and broke in with the Oakland A’s in 2012, before being traded to Boston, Detroit and the Mets.Cuban players, however, are permitted to play in other countries outside Cuba, just not the United States. That list includes Japan, where several players on the current Cuban roster are now pursuing their livelihood. The younger Cespedes said he had considered that option.“In five years, I would love to have the same contract in Japan — the same as Despaigne,” he said in reference to his teammate Alfredo Despaigne. “The good thing about Japan is I can play and then go back to Cuba,” he added.Despite the distance between them, Yoenis and Yoelkis communicate frequently. The younger Cespedes looks up to his half brother, and why not? This past off-season, Yoenis signed a four-year, $110 million contract to stay with the Mets.He is now in Florida, getting ready for the 2017 season, and he said through a team spokesman that he was “very proud’’ of his younger brother. “He’s a good player on his own,” he added.That sentiment was shared by Buck Martinez, a former major league catcher and manager who has been helping broadcast the Classic games in Japan for the MLB Network.“He’s 19 years old and doesn’t look like a 19-year-old,” he said of Yoelkis. “He reminds me an awful lot of a young Sammy Sosa. He has the same attributes. Good speed, strong arm, quick twitch muscles, looks like he has a good feel for the game. And certainly, he has the bloodlines, no question about that.”Carlos Marti, who coaches Yoelkis Cespedes in Cuba and on the national team, agreed that he was fast and has a strong arm, and did a good job adjusting to different pitches. “At this point, he looks a lot like his brother,” he said with a laugh.James Wagner contributed reporting from Port St. Lucie, Fla.Advertisement