AdvertisementSupported byKeeping ScoreBy Filip BondySpoiler alert: If you wish to continue enjoying gargantuan home runs in the future with unspoiled pleasure, free of all polynomial equations, read no further. If you persist, however, then there is much math to consider.Start with the homer that Aaron Judge, the Yankees outfielder, smashed against the Baltimore Orioles on June 11. It did not actually travel 495 feet, even though that was its accepted measurement. Instead, it soared about 470 feet from home plate, where its flight was interrupted by a fan’s botched attempt at a catch on a landing in left field. The pitch to Judge, from Logan Verrett, had arrived at 84.7 miles per hour. The ball’s exit velocity off Judge’s bat was 118.6 m.p.h., and its launch angle was 28.4 degrees.Then there was Mickey Mantle’s homer off Kansas City pitcher Bill Fischer on May 22, 1963 — the blast that struck the facade atop the right-field upper deck and nearly became the only fair ball ever to exit the old Yankee Stadium. It left his bat at an angle of 27 degrees with a velocity of 124 m.p.h. and was one of the hardest-hit balls in history. ESPN’s Home Run Tracker, interpolating data from tapes, meteorological conditions and eyewitnesses, projects that it would have traveled 503 feet if it had completed its arc and landed on River Avenue.As impressive as it was, that home run was considerably shorter than Reggie Jackson’s All-Star Game homer in Detroit on July 13, 1971, which left the bat at 124 m.p.h., like Mantle’s, but at an angle of 26 degrees. In theory it would have traveled 539 feet if it hadn’t hit a generator atop the right-field roof at the old Tiger Stadium.On it goes, the cold, mathematical deconstruction of mythological power. There is more data available today than ever before — more hardware available in the ballparks for detection and more software packed into laptops for analysis.Major League Baseball Advanced Media, or MLBAM, is now the clear leader in this field, moving toward a monopoly of sorts because it has been granted permission to install radar and cameras in all ballparks.For two seasons now, the results of MLBAM’s spy work have been available to the public on its Statcast website. The home-run analysis system employs TrackMan radar that sits about 100 feet behind home plate, usually in a stadium’s second tier. To measure nonbatting events, stereoscopic cameras are set up in two arrays of three, 30 to 50 feet apart usually on the third-base side, attached to the underhang of the second or third tier.“We’re just getting started,” said Matt Gould, the communications director for MLBAM. “Having hardware in ballparks, that was the big step. There never was that level of equipment in parks that could measure all things the system is trying to measure, from the pitch delivery to the conclusion of the event.”Broadcasters who work in partnership with MLBAM can tap into all sorts of information, such as the odds that a certain outfielder will catch a certain fly ball. Or the chances that a specific base runner will reach third base on a specific single. Or the fact that the Yankees’ Aaron Hicks threw the ball in from the outfield at 105.5 m.p.h. to nail a runner at the plate.The stats can be overwhelming, and it is amusing to consider how an old-school commentator like Phil Rizzuto might have handled them. Major League Baseball bans wireless access to these statistics in the dugout, though it does allow prepared scouting reports, complete with videos, on assigned iPad Pros.As for the homers, it is important to understand that not all stadiums are created equal. When MLB’s Statcast or ESPN’s Home Run Tracker posts a distance, that length does not indicate the real-life landing point of the baseball — which might have struck a wall, a fan or a concourse. In order to make accurate comparisons between home run distances, it is necessary for analysts to complete the hypothetical arc of the batted ball back down to the exact altitude of home plate.“The best way to look at it is that we have no topographical graphic at all in the analysis,” said Tom Tango, senior database architect for MLBAM.Tango and other stat gurus, such as Greg Rybarczyk with ESPN, have been doing this on their own for some time, though not always with the sort of hardware now available. Unlike ESPN’s site, MLBAM does not recreate home run distances of the past. And even ESPN’s Classic Home Run Tracker can estimate distances for homers only as much as existing film, video and photography will permit.The oldest so-called classic home run “measured” by Home Run Tracker was a rocket off the bat of Boston’s Ted Williams on June 9, 1946. The length of this particular homer is clearly a ballpark estimate, based on photographic evidence and meteorological records (76 degrees, a 21 m.p.h. wind). Interpolation puts the ball’s time of flight at 5.8 seconds at a launch angle of 30.3 degrees. The ball struck a Fenway Park seat 502 feet from home plate, and would most likely have carried an additional 28 feet, for a total of 530.Projecting any true home run distance before World War II is a largely futile exercise, a consequence of the lack of hard evidence. While it would be great fun to know some of Babe Ruth’s true distances, those numbers are left to the imagination, and to the claims of various observations, some more reliable than others.Bill Jenkinson, the Hall of Fame historian, estimated that Ruth hit a ball about 575 feet out of Navin Field in Detroit on July 18, 1921. In less formal settings, he allegedly slammed a 620-footer during an exhibition at Sing Sing prison in 1929; a 610-footer that caromed off a hotel in St. Petersburg, Fla., during spring training in 1934; a 587-footer for the Red Sox during a 1919 spring training game at Plant Field in Tampa, commemorated with a Florida historical marker as “Babe’s Longest Homer”; and a 650-footer during a postseason 1926 exhibition in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.That feat is also celebrated with a sign touting it as the “Longest Home Run in Competitive Baseball History.” If MLBAM had been available back then, one suspects, the distances on Ruth’s homers might have been shortened some.Clearly, a disproportionate number of titanic homers have been struck by Yankees. Judge is just the latest Bronx Bomber, and he comes around at a time when every pitch, every swing, every step, every long ball is quantified, recorded and ranked.If someone posts a sign immortalizing one of his homers, it is bound to be statistically accurate, devoid of all romance, exaggeration and mythology.Advertisement