AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerOn Sunday, as baseball’s winter meetings begin outside Washington, a Hall of Fame committee will consider a new slate of candidates. Bud Selig, who was Major League Baseball’s commissioner for more than two decades, seems likely to be elected. But a sliver of his wide-ranging legacy has now been undone.After the 2002 All-Star Game in Milwaukee — his hometown — ended in a tie, Selig acceded to Fox’s wishes and pushed for a rule giving home-field advantage for the World Series to the league that wins the All-Star Game. Under the new collective bargaining agreement — the first with Rob Manfred as commissioner — that link has been eliminated.Now the World Series team with the better record will host Games 1, 2, 6 and 7, a common-sense solution that ends the charade of tying the outcome of an exhibition to the sport’s signature event. If the teams have identical records, the first tiebreaker would be head-to-head record; the second, divisional record.Those wrinkles were some of the many that have emerged from interviews with people briefed on the agreement since it was completed late Wednesday. The people were granted anonymity because the deal must still be formally ratified.The deal seems generally similar to the last one, with adjustments on luxury-tax rates and thresholds, the entry method for international amateurs, and free-agent compensation. One new provision will give the Yankees a significant break on their revenue-sharing bill by eliminating the “performance factor,” an artificial multiplier on revenue based on market size and prior revenue rankings.Fans may notice other changes more. The scourge of smokeless tobacco is being phased out, with incoming players banned from using it. The primary disabled list will be reduced from 15 days to 10. The season will start four days earlier, creating more off days in the long schedule. The league also has the right to schedule regular-season games in England, Mexico and Asia.All are practical, progressive changes, yet none fit that description better than the removal of the link between the All-Star Game and home-field advantage for the World Series. The idea that it would add sizzle to the game, and thus spark ratings, was misguided from the start.“I never liked it,” said Al Leiter, an analyst for MLB Network who pitched in two All-Star Games before the rule change. “You can market the heck out of it, you can let everybody know ‘This time it counts’ — the slogan in 2003 — but the truth of it is, you go to these things as a reward for a great first half, and it’s a celebration. You’ve got parties — you’ve got all these things you can show off to your sponsors. It’s really our Super Bowl, in the marketing sense.”The events themselves have continued in that vein: It’s hard not to have fun at the All-Star Game. But ratings for the 2016 game, in San Diego, were the lowest ever. Managers’ main motivation is to give a slice of the action to as many players as possible. The games tend to move briskly, because hitters rarely work deep counts. Players would prefer to win, of course, but there has been little noticeable difference in the intensity of competition.“I could never wrap my arms around the fact that these guys are going there to sweat it out, to throw their nastiest slider and really grind it out and play like it really matters,” Leiter said. “I don’t care what they say — all your teammates are at home or in the Bahamas, and you’re playing in this marquee event.”Even near the start, the link was an afterthought for the players. The retired closer Brad Lidge, now a host on MLB Network Radio, pitched in his first All-Star Game in 2005, the third year in which the winning league received home-field advantage. He said he had not thought about it at all.“Home-field advantage was the furthest thing from my mind — and to be honest, no one else was talking about it, either,” said Lidge, who worked a scoreless inning in Detroit. “It just didn’t seem to be a relevant thing.”The National League lost that game, and Lidge’s Houston Astros wound up representing the N.L. in the World Series. Even then, he said, he didn’t actively think about why they opened on the road. The Chicago White Sox had been 10 games better than the Astros in the regular season, anyway, and Lidge said it only seemed right that they would host.Three years later, at Yankee Stadium, Lidge had a different All-Star experience that showed a downside of the link. Before the game, N.L. Manager Clint Hurdle told Lidge he would be the closer for the game, which dragged on for 15 innings. Lidge was forced to warm up five times, he said, essentially risking his health for an exhibition that somehow counted.“I was completely gassed, and this was supposed to be the All-Star break,” said Lidge, who took the loss. “You couldn’t find the trainers after the game, and half the guys who started weren’t even around at the end. It felt like somebody was getting a raw deal, and it would never have happened if we were playing it just for fun.”By then, Lidge was pitching for the Philadelphia Phillies, and he again reached the World Series that fall. That time, teammates playfully teased him about losing the All-Star Game and forcing them to start on the road, at Tampa Bay. But nobody dwelled on it.“We were so jacked up just to be there, we weren’t really paying attention to where we were going to win it,” Lidge said. “We got back to Philly and said, ‘Wouldn’t it be amazing to win it here?’”They did, with Lidge closing out the title in Game 5, but the Phillies were the exception. In 14 seasons with the link, the team with home-field advantage went 9-5. (Oddly, though, the road team won two of the three Game 7s played in the Series in that stretch.)Lidge said the All-Star Game should count for something, but he was not sure what — certainly, he added, nothing as important as home-field advantage in the Series. For now, pride should be enough.“When you have a chance to face off against the best in baseball, you want to see what you can do,” Lidge said. “Nobody wants to be embarrassed.”When the 2002 tie embarrassed baseball, the league and Fox overreacted with a remedy that never quite worked. The All-Star Game is again a pure exhibition, a midsummer showcase for an industry now into its third decade of labor peace.An earlier version of this article described incorrectly how the Yankees would receive a break on their revenue-sharing bill under Major League Baseball’s new labor deal. A multiplier on revenue based on market size and prior revenue rankings was eliminated; the Yankees did not receive a deduction of their stadium financing costs.Advertisement