AdvertisementSupported byBy David WaldsteinCLEVELAND — For more than eight months, from the start of spring training to the start of Game 7 of the World Series on Wednesday night, David Ross felt as if his baseball life had become the stuff of big-screen fiction, if not straight-up fantasy.At 39, he was playing in his final season in the major leagues, on a team, the Chicago Cubs, with aspirations to do what had not been accomplished by that franchise in 108 years: Win a championship. As the season progressed and the Cubs evolved into the best team in the sport, Ross began to feel that he and his teammates were heading toward an ending that Hollywood might package and sell.And in the end, he was absolutely right.“The whole thing was storybook,” Ross said after Chicago managed to outlast the Cleveland Indians to win a wild Game 7 that ended early Thursday and gave the Cubs, and their fans, the title that had been elusive for so many decades.“I feel like I’ve been in this movie that’s been happening since spring training,” he added. “You can’t write what’s gone on.”Well, one can try.Ross was the elder statesman on a Cubs team that won 103 games in the regular season. He caught Jake Arrieta’s no-hitter, and in the final game of his career, on Wednesday night, he entered in the fifth inning, went through a dizzying series of moments both good and bad and ended up with a championship. And now he can leave the sport shaking his head at the wonder of it all.“I was part of one of the greatest games ever and helped break the longest curse in baseball history,” he said. “It’s so emotional.”Ross made his major league debut for the Los Angeles Dodgers in June 2002. At the time, he was a 25-year-old rookie with aspirations of sticking in the big leagues long enough to make a mark. He did not know exactly where his career would take him — whether he would have success, make millions of dollars and win championships, or whether he would fade away after a few weeks.Fourteen years later, Ross ended his modest but enduring career in a fashion he will no doubt happily think about for the rest of his life.Normally a backup catcher, Ross entered Game 7 with two outs in the bottom of the fifth, with the Cubs leading, 5-1. Jon Lester, normally the team’s top starter, had just entered the game in relief, and because Ross normally catches him, he came into the game, too.Immediately, everything went wrong. The first batter, Jason Kipnis, hit a little roller in front of the plate, and Ross, in his haste to throw him out at first, threw the ball off line, allowing Kipnis to go to second and the lead runner to third.Lester then bounced a pitch that struck Ross in his mask and knocked him back. By the time he recovered, chased down the ball and threw it to Lester, who was covering the plate, both Indian runners had scored.Suddenly, the score had narrowed to 5-3. But in the top of the sixth, the script turned in Ross’s favor. Facing Andrew Miller, the Indians’ ace relief pitcher, Ross slammed a 1-2 pitch over the wall in center field, getting back one of the runs the Cubs had just surrendered.“I can not believe I homered,” Ross said afterward with incredulity in his voice. “I can’t. And off Andrew Miller, too, who is one of the nastiest guys I’ve ever faced and caught. Then I was trying to focus on catching, and guys were coming up to me and saying, ‘Dude, you just homered in Game 7.’ I was like, ‘Stop telling me that.’”More startling moments were to follow. The Cubs’ 6-3 lead held until the bottom of the eighth, when, with Ross still behind the plate, Cubs closer Aroldis Chapman entered the game and quickly surrendered a run-scoring double and then a home run.Suddenly, the score was tied, and considering their history, the Cubs looked cursed again — and about to lose. But Ross was able to guide the weary Chapman through the third out of the inning and, after being taken out in the top of the ninth for a pinch-runner, was able to go wild when Chicago rebounded to win it all in the 10th.In all, Ross played on 21 professional baseball teams on a journey that took him from Sarasota to Chattanooga to San Diego and to many stops in between. By comparison, Cal Ripken Jr. played for only one major league team, the Baltimore Orioles, and on four of its minor league affiliates.Ripken was a superstar and made it to the Hall of Fame. Ross is the guy who rode buses in the minor leagues even at age 36 and who played more than a third of his professional games at the minor league level. He was drafted by the Dodgers in the seventh round of the 1998 amateur draft after attending Florida High School in Tallahassee, Auburn and then the University of Florida.He never made a major league All-Star team, but he made good money, almost $23 million, according to Baseball-Reference.com, and had the good fortune to play on seven playoff teams, including the Cubs both last year and this season. In 15 seasons in the majors, he also ended up winning two championships, the first coming with the Boston Red Sox in 2013.Ross said he had taken time to soak up every moment of his final season, right up through his last road-trip plane ride with his teammates on Monday, when they returned to Cleveland for Game 6. For that game and Game 7, Cubs Manager Joe Maddon gave Ross the honor of taking the lineup card to home plate.And Ross said that when he had put on his uniform shirt on Tuesday, he had taken a second to look at the World Series patch on the sleeve and had savored the moment.It was the culmination of nearly two decades in baseball. Everything he had done professionally had led up to Game 7. And when the final out came, Ross jumped out of the dugout with his teammates and ran onto the field for the final time, only to be later carried off it by Jason Heyward and Anthony Rizzo.“I hit a home run in Game 7 and got carried off the field,” he said. Not a bad way to go out.An article on Thursday about the Chicago Cubs backup catcher David Ross, who played the final game of his major league career in Game 7 of the World Series, reversed, in some copies, the order in which he attended two colleges. He attended Auburn University first and then the University of Florida.Advertisement