AdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Daniel Edward Henning and Michael Lockwood Crouch were married April 5 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Tanya Litochevsky, a staff member of the City Clerk’s Office, officiated.Mr. Henning (left), 32, is the marketing content manager for Music Theatre International, a theatrical licensing agency in New York. He graduated from Baldwin Wallace University in Berea, Ohio.He is a son of Mary E. Henning and David L. Henning of Geneva, Ohio.Mr. Crouch, 34, is a voice-over actor in New York, who narrated the audiobook of Rebecca Makkai’s novel “The Great Believers.” He graduated from Ithaca College in Ithaca, N.Y.He is a son of Mary L. Crouch and Gregory K. Crouch of Austin, Tex. He is a stepson of Dawn Crouch.The couple met in 2013 on the uptown local C train in New York, and have been together ever since.Jessie Allyn Toback and Noah Rothman were married April 6 at the Brazilian Court Hotel in Palm Beach, Fla. Rabbi Ronne Friedman officiated.The couple met in 2006 at Franklin & Marshall College, from which they graduated.Mrs. Rothman, 31, is a second-grade teacher at Birch Wathen Lenox, a private school in New York. She received a master’s degree in childhood education and special education from N.Y.U.She is a daughter of Meryl L. Toback and Michael H. Toback of New York. The bride’s father is the owner of 20/20 Eyewear, an optical store in New York. Her mother is the owner and senior designer of Meryl Toback Interiors in New York.Mr. Rothman, 30, is a manager and producer in the New York office of Underground Films, a Los Angeles-based management and production company.He is the son of Susan R. Bolotin and John M. Rothman of New York. The groom’s mother is the publisher and editorial director of Workman Publishing in New York. His father is an actor, who recently starred in “One Mississippi,” a dark comedy on Amazon Prime Video, inspired by the comedian Tig Notaro’s life.The bride’s father realized that Mr. Rothman would be attending the same college as his daughter when Mr. Rothman came into his store for a pair of glasses. The bride’s father showed Mr. Rothman a picture of his daughter and suggested that they meet. The couple met on the first day of freshman year at Franklin & Marshall College, but didn’t start dating until their sophomore year.Carrie Michele Dorn and Adam Neal Friedman were married April 6 at the Lodge at Little Seneca Creek in Boyds, Md. Cantor Caron Dale officiated.The bride, 36, is a senior practice associate in Washington at the National Association of Social Workers, where she specializes in health care practice and policy issues. She graduated from Vassar and received two master’s degrees from Columbia, one in social work and the other in public administration.She is the daughter of Susan B. Dorn and Jeffrey L. Dorn of Englewood, N.J. The bride’s father is the director of operations and facilities at Central Synagogue in New York. Her mother is a freelance graphic artist.The groom, also 36, is a fire research engineer at Jensen Hughes, a fire protection and life safety engineering consulting firm in Baltimore. He graduated from the University of Maryland, from which he also received a master of science degree in fire protection engineering and where he is currently studying for a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering. He is also a volunteer firefighter and emergency medical technician with the Fire Department of Silver Spring, Md.He is the son of Bonnie A. Friedman and Robert M. Friedman of Silver Spring. The groom’s mother retired as a communications specialist with the Small Business Administration in Washington. She is also the author of “Hospital Warrior: How to Get the Best Care for Your Loved One.” His father, also retired, was a mathematics and science teacher at Quince Orchard High School in Gaithersburg, Md.The couple met on OkCupid in July 2016.Erin Elizabeth Hatch and Benjamin Robert Thomas were married April 6 at District Winery in Washington. The Rev. G. Douglass Lewis, a friend of the bride’s family and past president of the Wesley Theological Seminary, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Thomas, 31, works in Washington as the press secretary for the House Committee on Ways and Means. She graduated magna cum laude from Colgate University.She is the daughter of Susan Daugherty Hatch and Eric J. Hatch of Bethesda, Md. The bride’s father is a marketing consultant based in Bethesda. Her mother is a freelance marketing writer, also based in Bethesda.Mr. Thomas, who is 35 and works in Washington, is the legislative director for Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas. He graduated from Baylor University.He is a son of Alicia H. Thomas and Ron Thomas of San Antonio. The groom’s mother, who retired as the deputy chief academic officer for the Houston Independent School District, is now a consultant at Moak, Casey & Associates, a public service and consulting firm, based in Austin, Tex., that provides school finance and accountability analysis. His father, a retired school principal, now serves on the boards of San Antonio’s Communities in Schools and the San Antonio Independent School District Foundation.The couple met in January 2015 while both were working in Representative Castro’s office.Lacey Ann McKeon and Steven Clark Rockefeller III were married April 6 at St. Joseph’s Church in West Orange, N.J. The Rev. Msgr. Michael E. Kelly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride and groom, both 31, met at Boston College, from which each graduated.Mrs. Rockefeller is a production manager at MLB Network in Secaucus, N.J.She is a daughter of Ann C. McKeon and John F. McKeon of West Orange. The bride’s father, the mayor of West Orange from 1998 to 2010, is a Democratic state assemblyman who represents the 27th District. He is also a senior partner in Hardin, Kundla, McKeon and Poletto, a legal defense firm, with offices in Springfield, N.J., and New York. Her mother, who was a stay-at-home parent, retired as a part-time lawyer from the same law firm.Mr. Rockefeller is a commercial real estate broker at Cushman & Wakefield in New York. He is also a member of the Rockefeller Family Office’s Operating Committee in New York.He is a son of Kimberly Eckles Rockefeller and Mr. Rockefeller Jr. of Pleasantville, N.Y. The groom’s parents are venture capitalists focusing on immune oncology, blockchain application and city-center development in China. His mother is on the board of the Friends of the Rockefeller State Park Preserve in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. His father is a member of the Rockefeller University Council in New York, an international advisory group committed to the advancement of science.The groom is a great-grandson of the late Nelson A. Rockefeller, a former vice president of the United States and governor of New York.The couple, who met in 2005 as freshmen, socialized in the same circle of friends through college. Ms. McKeon said everyone always thought they were supposed to end up together, but she would brush them off. Mr. Rockefeller, on the other hand, said he always knew she was special. In 2013, when they both lived in New York and reconnected, she came around to his point of view. The day after Thanksgiving in 2017, as they walked along the reservoir in the South Mountain Reservation in West Orange, Mr. Rockefeller proposed.Samantha Nicole Marpe and Kristofer Andy Sandor were married April 6 at the United States Naval Academy Chapel in Annapolis, Md. The Rev. Eric Hoog, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 34, is a recruiter with Henkel Search Partners, a company in New York that specializes in recruiting investment professionals for private equity firms. She graduated from Penn State.She is the daughter of Mary Ellen Marpe and James S. Marpe of Westport, Conn. The bride’s father is the first selectman of Westport and a retired senior partner of Accenture, a global management and technology consulting company in New York. Her mother serves on the board of trustees of the Westport Country Playhouse.The groom, 40, was until December 2018, the general manager of Citi Bike, a bike share company based in New York. He previously served nine years on active duty in the Navy as a nuclear submarine officer, having achieved the rank of lieutenant, and was last stationed at the Office of the Secretary of Defense in Washington. He also served as a White House social aide in the Bush and Obama administrations before entering the private sector. He graduated from the Naval Academy and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.He is a son of Maria Sandor and Istvan Sandor of Lake Worth, Fla. The groom’s father, who worked in Boonton, N.J., retired as the president and founder of the Bio-Chem Valve Corporation, a manufacturer of high-quality fluidic components used in clinical diagnostics and analytical chemistry. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.The couple met in November 2016 through the online dating app the League. Their first date was at a wine bar that same month in New York’s West Village.Arielle Amandla Parker and Seth Naiburg Kisch were married April 6 at the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park. Rabbi Jim Stoloff officiated.Mrs. Kisch, 28, is a human resources professional at the New York law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, where she specializes in professional development. She graduated cum laude from Syracuse.She is the daughter of Sheryn H. Parker and Andrew C. Parker of St. Elizabeth, Jamaica. The bride’s father retired as a senior foreign service officer for the State Department in Washington. Her mother is a vice chair of the board of directors of the Edna Manley School of the Visual and Performing Arts in Kingston, Jamaica, and the founder of International Women Jamaica, a nonprofit organization based in Kingston.Mr. Kisch, 36, is an executive director for project and infrastructure finance at Morgan Stanley in New York. He graduated from Harvard and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania, from which he also received a master’s degree in international studies. Mr. Kisch is the son of Lisa G. Naiburg and Daniel A. Kisch of New Hyde Park, N.Y. The groom’s mother, who is retired, was an executive synagogue director at the Temple Beth Israel in Port Washington, N.Y. The groom’s father retired as a chief executive of SmartWork Media, a media company based in New York. He serves on the company’s board of directors.The couple met in 2015 on the dating app Hinge.Katherine Anne Del Raso and Christopher Michael Brolley were married April 6 at the Cathedral Basilica of SS. Peter and Paul in Philadelphia. The Most Rev. Timothy C. Senior, the auxiliary bishop of Philadelphia, performed the ceremony.The bride, 28, and groom, 31, met at Villanova, from which she graduated cum laude and received a joint law degree and M.B.A., and he received a law degree.The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, is an associate banker in the Philadelphia office of J. P. Morgan Private Bank. She is a daughter of Anne M. Del Raso and Joseph V. Del Raso of Devon, Pa. The bride’s father is a partner in Pepper Hamilton, a Philadelphia law firm. He is also chairman of the board of directors of Encore Series, presenter of the Philly Pops; and former chairman of the board of the National Italian American Foundation. Her mother was a stay-at-home parent.The groom is a judicial law clerk for Jeffrey L. Schmehl, a United States District Court judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, with chambers in Reading. He graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. He is the son of Maria T. Brolley and Luis O. Rios of Miami Beach. The groom’s mother is a lawyer in private practice in Miami. His father is a certified public accountant, also in private practice in Miami.Lucy Blond Melcher and John Martin Coady III were married April 6 at the InterContinental Hotel Washington — the Wharf. Jordan L. Bookey, a cousin of the bride who became authorized as a temporary officiant by the District of Columbia Marriage Bureau for the occasion, officiated incorporating Jewish elements.Mrs. Coady, 36, is a director of the No Kid Hungry Campaign at Share Our Strength, a nonprofit organization working to end childhood hunger, in Washington. She graduated cum laude from American University and received a master’s degree in public policy from Duke.She is a daughter of Barbara B. Melcher and Richard A. Melcher of Chicago. The bride’s father is a founding partner at Melcher & Tucker Consultants, a marketing and communications firm in Chicago. He is on the board of Mother Jones, a nonprofit investigative news organization in San Francisco. Her mother is an interior designer there. Until 2018, she was a founding board member of Impact Grants Chicago, a women’s volunteer collective that supports nonprofit groups in Chicago.Mr. Coady, 37, is the national development director of For Our Future, a political action committee in Washington focusing on community organizing for underrepresented voters. He graduated cum laude from Stonehill College in Easton, Mass., and received a master’s degree in political science from Suffolk University in Boston.He is a son of Patricia Coady of Reading, Mass., and the late Mr. Coady Jr. The groom’s mother retired as a radiologic technologist at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. His father worked in Chelsea, Mass., as a buyer for the Proler International Corporation, a company based in Houston, involved in processing, recycling, and selling ferrous and other scrap metals.The couple were introduced in August 2016 through the dating app Bumble, and a few days later they met at a wine bar in Washington. After realizing they had early morning flights out of Washington National Airport that Saturday, they decided to squeeze in a second date, which turned out to be a quick chat before they went through security at 7 a.m. and caught different flights.Ashira Beth Greene and William Winter Beutler were married April 6 at the Park Hyatt in Washington. Rabbi Aaron Miller officiated.Mrs. Beutler-Greene, 33, is a program associate on the meetings and special events team at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington. She is a juror for the Scholastic Art and Writing Awards, a high school and middle school writing and art competition, based in New York. She graduated from Wellesley College, and received a master’s degree in literary and cultural studies from Carnegie Mellon University, and a Ph.D. in education, focusing on the teaching of English literature in French secondary schools, from University College London.She is the daughter of Dara Ludwig Greene and Joshua E. Greene of Fairfax, Va. The bride’s father, an economist, retired as the deputy director of the IMF-Singapore Regional Training Institute in Singapore. He is now an economic consultant, as well as a visiting professor and the interim director of the applied economics track of the master of science in economics program at Singapore Management University. Her mother retired as a program analyst in the Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Education in Washington.Mr. Beutler, 39, is the founder and chief executive of Beutler Ink, a digital marketing agency in Washington. He is the creator of the Infinite Atlas Project, an interactive work mapping all geographic locations in David Foster Wallace’s “Infinite Jest.” He is also a creator and a host of a podcast, “Enter the Void,” which focuses on unconventional cinematic works. He graduated from the University of Oregon.He is a son of Toija J. Beutler and William C. Beutler of Portland, Ore. The groom’s mother, a lawyer, is the owner of the Beutler Exchange Group in Lake Oswego, Ore., which assists in tax-deferred exchanges of real estate across the United States. His father retired as a mechanical engineer from Allied Systems Company, a heavy equipment manufacturer in Sherwood, Ore.The couple connected in January 2017 through OkCupid.Claire Catherine Pires and Katherine Bogas Rhodes were married April 6 at Popp Fountain at the Arbor Room, an events space in New Orleans. Brian Koncius, a cousin of Ms. Rhodes who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.Ms. Pires (right), 28, is a senior account executive at MWWPR, a public relations firm in New York. She graduated from the University of Southern California and received a master’s degree in journalism from Columbia.She is the daughter of Sheila A. Pires and Alexander John Pires Jr., both of Washington. She is also the stepdaughter of Katherine Lazear, who is now married to Sheila Pires, and Diane Cooley, who is now married to Mr. Pires Jr. Ms. Pires’s father is a partner in Pires Cooley, a Washington law firm, and is also the chief executive and chairman of the Board of Community Bank Delaware. Her mother is the founding partner of the Human Service Collaborative of Washington, a policy and technical assistance group specializing in child and family service systems.Ms. Rhodes, 35, is a partner in Epstein, Becker & Green, a New York law firm, where she specializes in labor and employment law. She graduated from the University of Chicago and received a law degree, magna cum laude, from Tulane University.She is the daughter of Kathleen L. Bogas and Frank K. Rhodes III of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Ms. Rhodes’s father is the owner and founding partner of a law firm bearing his name in Southfield, Mich. Her mother is a lawyer and founding partner of Bogas & Koncius, a law firm in Bingham Farms, Mich., and she also serves as a co-chairwoman of the Michigan Judicial Qualifications Committee.The couple met on OkCupid in December 2013, and had their first date at a wine bar in New York.Roxanne Elizabeth Bras and Stephen Howell Petraeus were married April 6 in Cambridge, Mass. The Rev. Alanna C. Sullivan, a United Church of Christ minister, performed the ceremony at the Memorial Church of Harvard University.Mrs. Petraeus, 32, is an associate of McKinsey & Company, the global consulting firm in Boston. She graduated magna cum laude from Harvard and received a master’s degree in international relations from Nuffield College, Oxford, where she studied as a Rhodes scholar.She is the daughter of Karen Elizabeth Bras and Mark Jan Bras of Lake Mary, Fla. The bride’s father is a captain for American Airlines in Miami. Her mother is a medical quality assurance registered nurse in Orlando, Fla., for Ideal Image, a national medical spa.Mr. Petraeus, 32, is studying for a joint law degree and M.B.A. from Harvard. He graduated from M.I.T. He is the son of Hollister Knowlton Petraeus and David H. Petraeus of Arlington, Va. The groom’s father, the former general and director of the Central Intelligence Agency, is a partner with KKR, the global investment firm. His mother is a retired assistant director at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Washington.The couple met as sophomores in college, in 2006, when they were both Army cadets at M.I.T’s Reserve Officer Training Corps unit. They were commissioned as Army officers and served together in Afghanistan in 2010.Caroline Grace Marra and Benjamin Caleb Hemani were married April 6 at the Philbrook Museum of Art in Tulsa, Okla. Virginia Lanford Hemani, the mother of the groom who became a minister with American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.The bride, 30, who was until April 2017 a life sciences consultant in Boston, is now studying for a Ph.D. in health policy and management at Harvard. She graduated from Vanderbilt and received a master of engineering management degree from Dartmouth.She is a daughter of Cinda R. Marra and Mark J. Marra of Tulsa. The bride’s father is a Tulsa-based independent petroleum geologist. Her mother, a longtime grammar schoolteacher in New Jersey and Oklahoma, last taught remedial reading at Jenks High School in Tulsa.The groom, 31, works in Seattle, where he manages the personal venture capital portfolio of Bill Gates, a founder of Microsoft. He graduated from Dartmouth.He is a son of Ms. Hemani of Ipswich, Mass., and Dr. Sadruddin B. Hemani of Newburyport, Mass. The groom’s father is an otolaryngologist in private practice in Newburyport. His mother retired as an Episcopal chaplain at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.The couple met in September 2011 in Hanover, N.H., during the first day of orientation for their master’s program at the Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth.Advertisement