AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA look at what's happening around the majors Monday:JACKIE ROBINSON DAYMajor League Baseball observes Jackie Robinson Day at ballparks all over the country. Robinson broke baseball's color barrier when he debuted with the Brooklyn Dodgers on April 15, 1947. All players, managers, coaches, umpires and other on-field personnel will wear Robinson's retired No. 42. Members of Robinson's family are expected to be at Dodger Stadium for the opener of a three-game series between the Reds and Dodgers.HE'S BACKSpeaking of Los Angeles, Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw makes his first start of the season after being sidelined by left shoulder inflammation. Kershaw is 3-2 with a 2.54 ERA in 10 career starts versus Cincinnati. He likely will face former teammate Yasiel Puig in his return to L.A. after he was traded to the Reds in December. Puig spent his first six major league seasons with the Dodgers. Kershaw will be opposed by Luis Castillo, who has a sparkling 0.92 ERA over his first three starts this year.PATRIOTS' DAYThe Red Sox are set to play their annual Patriots' Day morning game, hosting Baltimore for an odd 11:05 a.m. start. Last year's game was postponed due to poor weather, the first rainout on the Massachusetts holiday since 1994. Weather could be an issue again this year, although forecasts project the rain to ease up right around first pitch. Boston has a chance to win its first series this season in the finale of a four-game set with the Orioles.TIME TO RESETThe Indians and Mariners open a series in Seattle, both coming off weekend sweeps to division rivals. Cleveland dropped three at Kansas City. The Mariners lost three home games to the Astros, dropping their early AL West lead to one game. Trevor Bauer (1-1, 2.29 ERA) pitches for the Indians against Seattle's Yusei Kikuchi (0-0, 4.15 ERA).SLUMPINGCardinals reliever Andrew Miller looks to get back on track after another shaky outing in Sunday's 9-5 victory over the Reds in Mexico. The 6-foot-7 left-hander allowed a single to Matt Kemp, struck out Jose Peraza and walked Curt Casali before he was replaced by Jordan Hicks. Miller agreed to a $25 million, two-year deal with St. Louis in December. He has a 6.35 ERA in nine games this season, allowing seven hits in 5 2/3 innings. The Cardinals begin a three-game series at Milwaukee on Monday night.___Advertisement