AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnThe Midsummer Classic returns to the nation’s capital. And the fourth season of “UnREAL” gets a surprise release on Hulu.2018 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL ALL-STAR GAME 8 p.m. on Fox. The American League and National League will go head-to-head in Washington, as the M.L.B. All-Star Game returns to the nation’s capital for the first time since 1969. “You’re playing but you’re looking around because you’re playing with all those big boys out there,” Jose Altuve, second baseman for the Houston Astros and 2018 American League player, told The Associated Press this month.10 THAT CHANGED AMERICA 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Lady Liberty has been getting a lot of attention: A woman scaled the statue this month to protest immigration policies and a postage stamp design with its image is at the center of  a copyright infringement case. Now, the monument is being showcased in this episode of PBS’s American architecture and urban planning series, hosted by Geoffrey Baer. This episode also features the Lincoln Memorial, Mount Rushmore, and the Robert Gould Shaw and 54th Regiment Memorial in Boston.HIP-HOP HOUDINI 10 p.m. on Fuse. In this new series, the magician and comedian Smoothini uses magic as an interview tool. This premiere episode welcomes the rapper ASAP Ferg.UnREAL on Hulu. When Hulu announced on Monday that it would be the new home for this Marti Noxon and Sarah Gertrude Shapiro Lifetime drama series, the company evidently took some inspiration from the Carters, pairing their announcement with a surprise drop of the series’s fourth season. The show, a meta-drama, blurs the line between reality television and complete fiction; it follows the production of a fictional reality show, training its eye on moments outside the set.BO BURNHAM: WHAT. (2013) on YouTube and Netflix. In 2008, when Bo Burnham was 17 and a YouTube sensation, his parents told The New York Times that their son was a “smart, serious, hard-working kid,” adding that his internet fame had “probably overtaken us more than him.” A decade later, Mr. Burnham’s work ethic has paid off. After years of comedy specials and acting gigs, he just opened his first film as a writer-director, “Eighth Grade,” to warm reviews. Now is a great time to revisit this 2013 special, in which Mr. Burnham discusses matters like depressed onions and his fear of being “one of many small, white, indistinguishable, perfectly cylindric checker pieces in Jesus and Satan’s backgammon game.”EAST SIDE SUSHI (2014) on iTunes, Amazon and YouTube. With the releases of “Blindspotting,” “Sorry to Bother You” and “Black Panther” this year, movies featuring Oakland, Calif., are having a moment. But the East Bay is no stranger to starring onscreen. An earlier example is this tale, by the Oakland filmmaker Anthony Lucero, which stars Diana Elizabeth Torres as a Latina woman in East Oakland who sets out to become a sushi chef.Advertisement