AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and Sandra Stevenson(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis took pains to walk back President Trump’s threat of an imminent strike against the Assad regime in Syria.Speaking before the House Armed Services Committee, Mr. Mattis said that retaliation for a suspected chemical weapons attack on Douma had to be balanced against the threat of a wider war between Russia, Iran and the West. British and French officials were also discussing military options.We interviewed survivors of that attack and reviewed videos and flight records to verify what occurred. “It was a scene that you don’t want anyone to have to see,” said one man who heard people run into the street, yelling: “Chemicals! Chemicals!” At least 43 people were killed.____2. In a stunning U-turn, President Trump asked his advisers to look into rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the trade deal he withdrew from within days of taking office.He’s trying to find ways to protect export-focused American farmers and ranchers, who are direct targets of China’s response to his new tariffs.Economists across the political spectrum say President Trump is right to highlight concerns about trade with China. But many add that he would do better to enlist international allies to help pressure Beijing.____3. “Told you so.”That’s the general sense from privacy experts on recent revelations about Facebook’s collection of user data. For the first time, users may be more willing to put up with inconveniences in return for a lot more privacy.Here are the big takeaways from two days of congressional testimony by the company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, above.And our podcast “The Daily” looks at Capitol Hill’s learning curve on tech.____4. A damning report released by Missouri’s House of Representatives told how the governor, Eric Greitens, above, made unwanted sexual advances toward his former mistress before he ran for office.The salacious details, including accounts of violent and coercive behavior, put the first-term Republican governor’s political future in deep trouble. He labeled the report “tabloid trash.”The state attorney general, Josh Hawley, called for Mr. Greitens to resign. (Mr. Hawley, also a Republican, is trying to distance himself from the governor as he seeks to unseat Senator Claire McCaskill.)____5. Battles over education funding and teacher pay are threatening Republicans’ grip on some of the country’s most conservative states. They could become a major issue in some important midterm and local races this fall.Arizona teachers laid the groundwork this week for a walkout. (Above, a demonstration in support of them.) Oklahoma teachers went on strike to protest low school budgets. Teachers in Kentucky are protesting a pension reform bill. And last month, West Virginia’s Republican-controlled government made concessions to striking teachers.Republicans and Democrats see the unrest as a symptom of unease about years of belt-tightening after popular tax cuts.____6. A Colorado civic group is spearheading an effort to buy The Denver Post, which is in open revolt against the New York hedge fund that owns it. The 125-year-old paper excoriated the fund, Alden Global Capital, as “vulture capitalists” in an editorial last Sunday.Local newspapers across the country have been devastated by the loss of revenue from print advertising, and The Post’s owner ordered more job cuts last month.The civic group, Together for Colorado Springs, says potential investors have so far pledged $10 million.____7. Good riddance, Harvey, Irma, Maria and Nate.The World Meteorological Organization has officially retired the names of the four 2017 storms from the rotating roster of cyclone names. Above, Puerto Rico after Maria.The meteorologists do that when “a storm is so deadly or costly that the future use of its name on a different storm would be inappropriate for reasons of sensitivity.”Only one other storm season has ever produced more banishments: 2005, the year of Dennis, Rita, Stan, Wilma and Katrina.____8. It was Holocaust Remembrance Day, an internationally recognized date that commemorates the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising.But a new survey found that in fact, the Holocaust is fading from memory in the U.S. Many adults — particularly younger ones — are fuzzy on basic details, like the number of people killed or what Auschwitz, above, was.The study was commissioned by the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, which negotiates restitution for Holocaust victims and their descendants.____9. Players for the Yankees and the Red Sox brawled on the field at Fenway Park on Wednesday night. It all started when a 97-mile-per-hour fastball from Boston reliever Joe Kelly found its intended target: Tyler Austin’s ribs. Austin charged Kelly, and both benches — and bullpens — quickly emptied.The crowd, as they say, went wild. And while the league will surely impose discipline for the scuffle, our baseball writer predicts it will do so with a wink.“Two glamour franchises, rolling around on the grass, in a game televised by MLB Network. Well, it was a beautiful sight for business,” Tyler Kepner noted wryly. (The Rockies and the Padres also fought on Wednesday.)____10. Finally, the gladiators of “Scandal” are leaving the arena.We talked to the show’s creator, Shonda Rhimes, above right, and three of its stars about how the over-the-top political drama became a ratings juggernaut. The last episode airs April 19. (And you can relive its seven wildest moments here.)“We were going to do our own thing our own way,” explained Kerry Washington, second from left, who played the inimitable Olivia Pope. “And we were going to make it loud and bold and to hell with what everybody says TV is supposed to look like.”On the late-night shows, the hosts took stock of House Speaker Paul Ryan’s sudden resignation. From Stephen Colbert: “Fare thee well, Paul Ryan, we’ll all miss your famous catch phrase: ‘No, I hadn’t heard what the president said, but if true, that is troubling.’”Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement