AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersChristian Yelich continued his dominance over the St. Louis Cardinals this season, setting career highs -- and tying franchise single-game records -- with three home runs and seven RBIs to lead the host Milwaukee Brewers to a 10-7 win Monday in the opener of a three-game series.Yelich hit a three-run homer to cap the six-run second for Milwaukee, then added a three-run homer off reliever Mike Mayers (0-1) in the sixth to snap a 6-6 tie. His solo shot in the eighth made it 10-6.After Dexter Fowler scored on a passed ball to make it 6-4, Paul Goldschmidt and Marcell Ozuna followed with RBI singles, the latter making the score 6-6. All three runners were put on base by Alex Claudio, who gave way to Junior Guerra (1-0). Though Guerra allowed all baserunners to score, he got the win thanks to Yelich's second home run.Milwaukee right-hander Freddy Peralta gave up back-to-back home runs to Goldschmidt and Paul DeJong in the first inning. Peralta lasted just 3 1/3 innings, giving up three runs, four hits and three walks while striking out three.Orioles 8, Red Sox 1Chris Davis hit his first home run of the season as Baltimore pounded Boston at Fenway Park in the annual Patriots' Day game. Davis hit a two-run blast off Boston's Heath Hembree in the eighth inning for his first home run since Aug. 24 of last season.Dwight Smith Jr. homered and drove in four runs and Dan Straily (1-1) pitched five solid innings for Baltimore, which earned a split of the four-game series.In a spot start for the Red Sox, Hector Velasquez (0-1) allowed a run in three innings. Boston's J.D. Martinez had two hits -- including a double -- and has at least one hit in 16 of 17 games this season.Rangers 12, Angels 7Shin-Soo Choo, Joey Gallo and Asdrubal Cabrera each hit home runs, while Gallo, Cabrera, Nomar Mazara and Isiah Kiner-Falefa had two RBIs apiece as host Texas rallied from an early three-run hole to rout Los Angeles in Arlington.The Rangers knocked out Angels starter Trevor Cahill after four innings, then knocked L.A.'s bullpen around. Cam Bedrosian (1-1) surrendered four runs (three earned) on four hits and a walk with one strikeout. Rangers starter Shelby Miller also failed to get out of the fifth inning, but Texas was steadied by reliever Kyle Dowdy (1-0), who tossed 2 2/3 effective innings.Mike Trout returned to the Angels' lineup after missing three games with a groin strain. Though he went 0-for-2, he also drew three walks and scored twice.Cubs 7, Marlins 2David Bote and Willson Contreras had three RBIs each while Javier Baez had three hits and scored twice as Chicago rolled in Miami.Yu Darvish (1-2) earned just his second win since signing a six-year, $126 million contract with Chicago in February 2018. He gave up four hits, four walks and two runs in 5 2/3 innings, striking out eight.Trevor Richards (0-2) took the loss after surrendering four hits, four walks and five runs in 4 2/3 innings. He also fanned three and gave up a hit with a runner in scoring position for the first time the season.Blue Jays 5, Twins 3Teoscar Hernandez hit a three-run homer to highlight a four-run eighth inning as Toronto rallied for a win in Minneapolis.Hernandez finished with three hits, Randal Grichuk went 3-for-4 with a pair of doubles, and Justin Smoak went 2-for-3 with a double, an RBI and a run scored for Toronto, which won for just the third time in its last 10 games. Sam Gaviglio (1-0) picked up the win with a scoreless inning of relief and Joe Biagini pitched a 1-2-3 ninth to earn his first save.C.J. Cron hit a three-run homer and Jorge Polanco went 3-for-3 with a walk and scored a run for Minnesota. Adalberto Mejia (0-1) took the loss after giving up four runs on four hits in two innings of relief.White Sox 5, Royals 4Welington Castillo drilled a go-ahead, two-run home run in the eighth inning and the Chicago bullpen delivered four innings of one-run relief to preserve the lead and ultimately the win over visiting Kansas City.Castillo's opposite-field drive to right field snapped an 0-for-23 skid and followed a leadoff double from Tim Anderson, who went 3-for-4 and remains the leading hitter in the majors with a .453 batting average.Manny Banuelos (1-0) was the winner, pitching three innings of one-run, no-hit relief while walking three and striking out one. Brad Boxberger (0-3) took the loss and his second blown save of the season, allowing two runs and two hits while walking one in the Chicago eighth.Mets 7, Phillies 6 (11 innings)A two-out error by Philadelphia first baseman Rhys Hoskins in the top of the 11th inning scored the decisive run, lifting visiting New York to a win at Citizens Bank Park.Michael Conforto's grounder bounced off Hoskins' glove, allowing Juan Lagares to race home from second base. Mets starter Noah Syndergaard gave up nine hits and five runs and three in five innings while striking out nine. Luis Avilan (1-0) earned the win in relief while Edwin Diaz earned his sixth save.Phillies starter Aaron Nola struggled again, allowing seven hits and five runs in four innings. Reliever Pat Neshek (0-1) took the loss after allowing the unearned run in the 11th.Dodgers 4, Reds 3Joc Pederson hit a walk-off, two-run home run in the ninth inning to give Los Angeles a win over Cincinnati in a game that marked Clayton Kershaw's return to the mound and a host of former Dodgers' return to their former home.Most notably among the ex-Dodgers, Yasiel Puig hit a home run and Matt Kemp hit a go-ahead RBI single in the top of the ninth. Kemp and Puig were traded from the Dodgers to the Reds in a seven-player deal in December.Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen (1-0) gave up Kemp's run-scoring single but earned the victory thanks to Pederson's heroics. Pederson hit a 1-1 pitch off Reds closer Raisel Iglesias (0-3), his seventh of the season. Kershaw gave up two runs on five hits over seven innings (84 pitches), with no walks and six strikeouts in his first game since shoulder inflammation cut his spring training short.Rockies 5, Padres 2Antonio Senzatela came off the injured list to hold host San Diego to one run over 6 2/3 innings, and Nolan Arenado and Ian Desmond homered as Colorado opened a two-game series with a win.Desmond, who entered the game hitting .140, drove in three of the Rockies' runs with a two-run double in the second and a homer leading off the seventh against left-handed Padres starter Joey Lucchesi (2-2). Arenado hit his second homer of the season in the sixth, a solo shot.Senzatela (1-0), making his first start of the season after going on the injured list in spring training with an infected blister on his right heel, gave up only six hits and a walk with four strikeouts. Wade Davis got the game's final out to record the Rockies' first save of the season.Indians 6, Mariners 4Trevor Bauer tossed 6 2/3 strong innings, and Jose Ramirez belted his first home run of the season as Cleveland won at Seattle.Jason Kipnis had an RBI single in his first contest since straining his right calf on March 20, and Hanley Ramirez also had a run-scoring single for the Indians, who snapped a three-game losing skid.Edwin Encarnacion extended Seattle's major league record to 19 consecutive contests at the start of a season with a home run with his two-run shot in the eighth inning. Omar Narvaez homered in the next at-bat, and Domingo Santana had an RBI single among his three hits for the Mariners, who have dropped four in a row.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement