AdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler KepnerFor years, no closer had been paid more than $15 million a season. That was the benchmark set by the Yankees’ Mariano Rivera, who also has the career saves record. For the first three off-seasons after Rivera’s retirement, in 2013, nobody challenged his salary standard.Now it has fallen three times this month. Kenley Jansen — who, like Rivera, dominates with the cutter — is the latest, agreeing Monday to a five-year, $80 million contract to stay with the Los Angeles Dodgers.The agreement was confirmed by a person briefed on the contract who requested anonymity because it had not been officially announced. It was first reported by Jim Bowden of ESPN and MLB Network Radio.Last week, at the winter meetings outside Washington, the San Francisco Giants signed Mark Melancon to a four-year, $62 million deal — an average annual value of $15.5 million. The Yankees then agreed with Aroldis Chapman on a five-year, $86 million contract, an average yearly salary of $17.2 million.On Monday, it was Jansen’s turn to pass Rivera, with an average salary of $16 million. Jansen, a 29-year-old right-hander, had 47 saves in 53 chances last season with a 1.83 earned run average. He has averaged at least 13 strikeouts per nine innings in each of his seven seasons, doing so with impeccable command: In the last two years, Jansen has 184 strikeouts while walking just 19.Jansen also starred in the 2016 playoffs, working more than one inning in five of his seven outings and appearing as early as the sixth inning. The Dodgers lost in the National League Championship Series to the Cubs, who let Chapman leave as a free agent and traded for his replacement, acquiring Wade Davis from Kansas City for outfielder Jorge Soler.The Dodgers, who have won the last four National League West titles, had also retained starter Rich Hill with a three-year, $48 million contract. Widespread reports Monday indicated that they were close to a deal to keep third baseman Justin Turner.The combined guaranteed contracts to Jansen, Hill and Turner will probably exceed $190 million, showing that the Dodgers can still spend aggressively despite a mandate by Major League Baseball to reduce their debt. The Dodgers have averaged almost $300 million a year in payroll and luxury taxes over the last four seasons.The team they beat in the division-series round, the Washington Nationals, lost Melancon and could not lure Jansen as his replacement, despite a more lucrative offer. The Nationals could turn to an internal candidate like Shawn Kelley, or perhaps revive trade discussions for David Robertson of the Chicago White Sox. Remaining free agents with closing experience include Santiago Casilla, Greg Holland and Brad Ziegler.Advertisement