AdvertisementSupported byWordplayBy Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE — Finn Vigeland adds his name to our 2018 roster today, with a Saturday puzzle that, while tricky and frustrating, was so unusually and exuberantly clued that I really got most stumped on a couple of entries that were really (well, figuratively) no-brainers. A weekend puzzle can’t be all million-dollar words; in every grid some filler must come. But the clues for NAM, ETRE, DEN, DTS, AYE and some others seemed extra fresh to me; in a few cases the big entries helped me solve the little ones, instead of vice versa.On top of that, according to Mr. Vigeland’s notes, the clues on this one might have been even zanier. Oh well, our brains are bound to be gobbled up soon enough anyway. Use ’em and/or lose ’em!Interesting note for solvers with an analytic bent: While a vast majority of Times daily puzzles are 15 rows deep and 15 columns wide, today’s grid is a teeny bit rectangular at 16 columns wide. That allows those three center entries to be a teeny bit longer, but I’d bet that for most solvers the center “stack” wasn’t the thorniest patch of clues. There were so many others!29A: That said, I was surprised that LIN MANUEL MIRANDA was a puzzle debut. At this point, his is a known name to more than Broadway aficionados and award nerds; Mr. Miranda is a voice in pop culture for all types of entertainment, and last year came out as an enthusiastic activist for post-hurricane Puerto Rico. He’s also an Oscar away from being the third person to reach PEGOT status — with a Pulitzer, Emmy, Grammy, Oscar and Tony on one mantel. At 16 letters, I think this entry alone was a perfectly good reason to break the 15x15 mold.50A: “One of a kind” has evolved through the ages in the puzzle, hinting “lulu,” “nonpareil” and “Dr Pepper,” to name a few. Today’s reference is from the Latin, RARA AVIS, or “strange bird.” I think it’s a compliment, although I’ve never used it; the term’s appearance is fairly rara itself, only a few times in the paper. To me, though, it’s an interesting, evocative expression.54A: So I noticed Deb Amlen’s new category, “Hi, Kids!”, where she elucidates old-timey nomenclature for the emoji-age babies in our midst. I’d put this clue in the “Salutations, Bookish Folks” section, for those of us who didn’t spend enough time in a fraternity basement to catch every product placement at a beer pong event (or a keg jump, or a hazing). The receptacle that one must paddle one’s Ping-Pong ball into is a SOLO CUP.2D: A punny clue for horse people? Well, giddy yup. “Mounts with a little white on top?” should be topographical, if not for that question mark. The mount in question is equine; one of the fun variations on a horse’s coat color is ROAN, which usually means one color evenly speckled or dusted with white.12D: I questioned this entry, MIMED for “Copied,” but it’s correct in two ways; even in the classical, Marcel Marceau sense, the silent representation of something is often in satirical mimicry, something I’ve forgotten since a mime has been boiled down, in my mind, to just someone mutely trying to get out of a nonexistent box. In computers, MIME also refers to the technology that helps you send out files, photos, videos and other things via email, which when you think about it, is all about copying, as your recipient gets a duplicate version of what you create. It still stopped me for a minute.21D: Font trivia alert! Bauhaus was a pre-World War II movement in Germany that reacted to America and England’s pragmatic but artisanal Arts and Crafts and turned everything into sharp angles and slabs. FUTURA was all of that, swapping serifs for the pointiest of pointy corners and ends. In the department of what goes around comes around (my favorite department, don’t you know), the Nazis disliked Futura for eliminating their Fraktur-style heavy ornamentation — until they took Futura as their own, with no explanation.44D: One of those clues that I was referring to, unusual references to common entries, I don’t know a bit about any of the soldiers in King David’s army (Hi, fellow heathens!). This guy, it turns out, was also Bathsheba’s husband, which is a slightly commoner clue for him. He also inspired an unctuous Dickens character, URIAH Heep, who inspired the name of a big classic rock band — these are the references I recognize. But gleaning new knowledge from the clues as well as the entries doubles the fun, as far as I’m concerned.Go big or go home, right? For my first published triple-stack, I added an extra column to accommodate my longtime idol (and Twitter follower!) at 29-Across. I think he’s worth it. Lin, I think your way with words would translate well to puzzle construction — let me know if you’re interested!I’m a bit sad to see the neutered clues on ZOMBIE APOCALYPSE, originally [Literary trope that’s getting revived?]; and MLB DRAFT [Occasion to cover one’s bases, familiarly?]. I write a lot of themelesses for fun, but often leave them sitting in my drafts folder without cluing them, so I guess I’m still getting used to Will’s style on late-week puzzles. I avoid partial phrases in my puzzles unless there’s really no other option, so I was disappointed that 11-Across’s clue change caused it to be reparsed from the Latin AMO to the two-word A MO. Other than these quibbles, I’m quite pleased with the final version of this puzzle, which underwent several drafts over the last few years. Redoing themelesses until you finally get that golden fill is such a satisfying exercise, so I’m glad I persisted on this one.Lastly, I’m over the moon that this puzzle is coincidentally being published the same day as the Boston launch event for “Down and Across,” the debut novel of one of my best friends, Arvin Ahmadi. Arvin began writing the book when we were college roommates, and I’m honored to have served as a bit of a puzzle consultant on it (and reader of several drafts). It’s a great coming-of-age story with complex, diverse characters that will assuredly appeal to puzzle fans of all ages.What did you think?Advertisement