AdvertisementSupported byExtra basesThe Oakland A’s are planning to disrupt the traditional season-ticket model next season, allowing fans to buy access to all 81 home games without committing to a seat.By Tyler KepnerThe phrase is part of the lexicon of sports, signifying a fan’s ultimate expression of devotion to a team: season tickets. For every game, the fan would be there in the same seat, never missing a moment of the action. To the Oakland A’s, the concept is due for a twist. On Monday, the team announced that it would cancel its current season-ticket program for 2019. Chris Giles, the A’s chief operating officer, said that while many fans still wanted the traditional season-ticket experience, a fast-growing group wanted something much different.“The whole notion that you would sell them a product that had them sit in a single seat for the entire game was unappealing, let alone sell them an entire strip of tickets for that seat,” Giles said. “They wanted something that was much more social, much more flexible. So we set out to ask: How can we develop a model that continues to serve that core group of fans but is also attractive to this new, smaller, growing group of fans?”On Friday, the A’s began selling packages called “A’s Access,” which start at $240 and give fans general-admission access to all 81 games at the Coliseum, plus a reserved-seat plan and discounts on parking, merchandise and concessions. Fans can pay more to be eligible for seat upgrades, but they will always be allowed into the ballpark.“We have to be thoughtful about what their experience will be if they show up to a game in which they don’t have a reserved seat,” Giles said. “So we really have three options for those folks.”Those options, he explained, are general admission seating; social areas and standing-room party decks; and upgraded seats. Essentially, the program puts the fan in the ballpark, but the fan’s level of investment determines where he or she can sit, and how often.Giles has marketing experience in several other professional sports, mostly in football; he was a vice president for sales and strategy with the San Francisco 49ers. In the N.F.L., teams market games as “single-day vacations,” he said, but baseball, with its much longer schedule, should fit a more flexible lifestyle.“The other really interesting part of our industry, currently, is that a lot of clubs basically only offer an 81-game plan for a lot of the best seats,” Giles added. “If you think about the logical chain of incentives there, a fan will say: ‘You know what, I want a good seat. Do I want to go to a lot of games? If so, I may be willing to buy that package. But my game plan is to go and put the vast majority of those seats on the secondary market.’“And then you’ve got a whole other group of fans that wants to go to one or two games. So they go to the secondary market and buy that premium seat location, and the ticket is bundled with all of these great amenities: access into a club, all-inclusive food and beverage. So you quickly get to a point where you have eroded the value proposition of actually being a member because there’s no marginal benefit to being a member that you can’t buy on the secondary market.”The A's new program, Giles hopes, will match the efficiency of the secondary market while also offering membership benefits to every game the fan attends. The overall goal, of course, is to increase attendance for a team with a spirited, but small, fan base.The A’s are surprise contenders who averaged just 17,763 fans for their first 50 home games this season, ranking 28th in the majors, ahead of only Tampa Bay and Miami. Their inherent challenges — a low payroll and an outdated stadium, with no hope of a new venue until 2023 at the earliest — offer Giles and the team president, Dave Kaval, a chance to innovate.“What I love about it is creative freedom,” Giles said. “I mean, if you have an entire business that basically all you have to do is monitor it because you know the organic demand is high, you start to get into a pretty risk-averse mind-set. Whereas Dave Kaval and myself, we love to just push the envelope.”Behind every veteran-for-prospect trade is a tale of opportunity, often for a player not included in the deal itself. So it was for Isaac Galloway, an 11-year minor leaguer who realized a dream on Tuesday, the day of the nonwaiver trade deadline.Galloway, 28, entered professional baseball as an eighth-round pick of the Florida Marlins in 2008, coming from a high school in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif. The franchise has undergone upheaval since then, changing its name (to the Miami Marlins), its ballpark, its ownership and — over and over — its roster. But still, Galloway remained, climbing the minor league ladder before stalling with the Class AAA New Orleans Baby Cakes.Last season, Galloway tore his medial collateral ligament while sliding into the plate, which cost him most of the season. He worried that his journey might end in pain.“That was a scary one,” said Galloway, who has 161 stolen bases in the minors. “Thoughts creep into your mind: I’m older now, I have an injury, and my legs are a big part of my game.’ That was a pretty down time.”But the Marlins brought Galloway back for another season, his fourth in New Orleans, and he had played 947 career minor league games when his manager, Arnie Beyeler, called him on Tuesday afternoon. The Baby Cakes were traveling to El Paso, Tex., for a game — but Galloway would not be joining them.“He told me there was a possibility of a trade, so I should hang out in New Orleans and keep my phone near me,” Galloway said. “I didn’t know what to expect.”Beyeler eventually told him to go to the airport, and then informed him that the Marlins had traded Cameron Maybin — a right-handed outfielder, like Galloway — to the Seattle Mariners. That meant Galloway was headed to the majors at last, to join the Marlins in Atlanta.Galloway called his parents, waited out a weather delay and flew to Atlanta, where a car service, with the Marlins-Braves game playing on the radio, whisked him to SunTrust Park. A cart then hustled Galloway through a stadium corridor to the door of the visitors’ locker room, where he hurriedly buttoned up uniform No. 79.“In an inning and a half,” he said, “I’m in the game.”After entering for defense in the seventh inning, Galloway came to bat in the ninth, beating out an infield single and clapping his hands as he crossed first base. Galloway said he would give the ball to his grandmother, Olean White. Only one player in team history — Brian Daubach, in 1998 — had ever made his debut after playing more games in the minors.“I cried at different spots in the day; it was so overwhelming and chaotic,” Galloway said. “I think when I got the hit and got to first, I was shaking and I didn’t really know why.”The rebuilding Marlins lost the game, 11-6, but Galloway’s moment left an indelible impression, summarized poignantly in a tweet by the team broadcaster Glenn Geffner: “THAT is the beauty of Baseball. After an 87-minute rain delay, in a near-empty ballpark, after midnight, in the 9th inning of a crummy loss in Atlanta, you get rewarded with Isaac Galloway’s first #MLB hit in his first at-bat after 11 years in the minor leagues. Nothing like it.”When Ryan Zimmerman singled in the first inning on Tuesday, he broke a tie with Tim Wallach to become the career hits leader for the Montreal Expos/Washington Nationals franchise, with 1,695.The Nationals drafted Zimmerman in the first round in 2005, their first year in Washington after 36 in Montreal. Zimmerman also leads the franchise with 257 homers and 958 runs batted in (through Thursday), putting him in the company of several Hall of Famers.Only six other players lead a franchise in career hits, homers and runs batted in. Two did it for 1990s expansion teams: Luis Gonzalez with the Arizona Diamondbacks and Todd Helton with the Colorado Rockies. The others are some of the most revered players in baseball history: Hank Aaron with the Atlanta Braves; George Brett with the Kansas City Royals; Stan Musial with the St. Louis Cardinals; and Cal Ripken Jr. with the Baltimore Orioles.Where is Willie Mays, you might ask? He missed by the thinnest of margins. Mays is the Giants’ career leader in hits and home runs, but finished his Giants career — New York and San Francisco — with 1,859 runs batted in, one fewer than Mel Ott.Players who rank first in their franchise’s history in hits, home runs and runs batted in.TEAMPLAYERHITSHRR.B.I.BravesHank Aaron3,6007332,202CardinalsStan Musial3,6304751,951DiamondbacksLuis Gonzalez1,337224774NationalsRyan Zimmerman1,696257958OriolesCal Ripken Jr.3,1844311,695RockiesTodd Helton2,5193691,406RoyalsGeorge Brett3,1543171,596TEAMPLAYERHITSHRR.B.I.BravesHank Aaron3,6007332,202CardinalsStan Musial3,6304751,951DiamondbacksLuis Gonzalez1,337224774NationalsRyan Zimmerman1,696257958OriolesCal Ripken Jr.3,1844311,695RockiesTodd Helton2,5193691,406RoyalsGeorge Brett3,1543171,596Franchise history includes previous cities. Zimmerman’s statistics are through Thursday.Baseball-reference.comBy The New York TimesThe predictable tear-down of the Baltimore Orioles, who were 42 games out of first place at the nonwaiver trading deadline on Tuesday, underscored the organization’s failure to capitalize on its high draft picks.A losing season in 1998 sent the Orioles into a deep spiral, but they kept missing chances to escape. Fourteen seasons in a row — from 1999 through 2012 — the Orioles held a top-15 pick in the June draft. Three playoff appearances followed, in 2012, 2014 and 2016, but the Orioles never won a game beyond the division series.The Orioles uncovered three future All-Stars at the top of those drafts: outfielder Nick Markakis in 2003, catcher Matt Wieters in 2007 and infielder Manny Machado in 2010. But their pitching selections continually went bust. Nine times in those 14 seasons, the Orioles took a pitcher with their first choice. Five of those nine never reached the majors.The others were Adam Loewen, Brian Matusz, Dylan Bundy and Kevin Gausman. Loewen pitched three seasons for Baltimore with a 5.85 earned run average. Matusz had three strong seasons as a reliever, but struggled as a starter. Bundy and Gausman, both picked fourth over all, have been good enough to tease fans with their potential, but neither has developed into an ace.The duo combined to go 69-75 with a 4.23 E.R.A. during their years together in the organization. When the Orioles traded Gausman to the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday, Baseball Reference calculated his E.R.A.+ at 100 — precisely the league average. Atlanta’s hope is that Gausman will thrive by leaving the American League East and reuniting with two former Orioles coaches, Dave Wallace and Dom Chiti, who now work for the Braves.The Orioles acquired 15 players, almost all minor leaguers, by dealing Machado, Gausman, Zach Britton, Jonathan Schoop, Darren O’Day and Brad Brach before the deadline. They will hold a high pick again next year, and they plan to dive into the international amateur market, which they have largely ignored, by using the $2.75 million they acquired in international bonus pool money this July.Unfortunately for the Orioles, a prominent division rival had the same idea, and came away with even more cash. In their July trades, the Yankees collected $3.75 million to spend on international amateurs.Two years ago at the nonwaiver trading deadline, catcher Jonathan Lucroy, then with the Milwaukee Brewers, rejected a trade to the Cleveland Indians. The Brewers pivoted and sent Lucroy to the Texas Rangers for a prospect package that included outfielder Lewis Brinson and pitcher Luis Ortiz.Now, as they pursue their first playoff appearance in seven years, the Brewers are benefiting from Lucroy’s decision. Last winter, Milwaukee used Brinson to headline a package sent to the Miami Marlins for outfielder Christian Yelich, who made his first All-Star team this season. On Tuesday, they put Ortiz in their package to the Baltimore Orioles for infielder Jonathan Schoop.Yelich, whose .321 batting average led the National League through Thursday, had a feeling the Brewers would be a good fit.“Just looking back on what they accomplished last year, they finished a game out of a playoff spot, so you knew you were coming to a place that was pretty special,” he said. “I didn’t really try to do anything else, I just wanted to be the guy that they traded for, nothing more, nothing less, and just contribute and help them win every night.”Yelich, 26, is under team control through 2022 in a deal he signed with the Marlins, who have not yet seen much return in the majors from the trade. While other prospects Milwaukee sent Miami in the deal have played well in the Marlins’ farm system, Brinson, 24, is on the disabled list with a hip injury after hitting just .186 in 84 games.When Ken Giles cursed out Manager A.J. Hinch during a pitching change in Houston on July 10, his tenure with the Houston Astros was effectively over. Giles had an awful postseason last fall, and with a 4.99 earned run average this season and a public show of disrespect to Hinch, he was sent to the minors.Effectively, then, Giles lost his chance to contribute to the team. But rather than bring Giles back for a second chance, the Astros traded him to the Toronto Blue Jays on Monday. They did grant a second chance in that deal — to Roberto Osuna, who violated baseball’s domestic violence policy in May and was serving a 75-game suspension, the second longest M.L.B. has ever given for that offense. The player who received the longest suspension (Atlanta’s Hector Olivera, for 82 games in 2016) has not appeared in the majors since.Osuna was charged with assaulting a woman, and the Toronto authorities have not released further details about the incident. Osuna’s lawyer has said that he plans to plead not guilty.Plenty of other relievers could have upgraded the back end of the Astros’ bullpen, including Kelvin Herrera, Brad Hand, Zach Britton and Keone Kela, who were all traded elsewhere. Instead, the Astros took on a pitcher with a troubling past, while maintaining that the organization had a “zero-tolerance policy” for domestic abuse.“Quite frankly,” General Manager Jeff Luhnow told reporters, “I believe that you can have a zero-tolerance policy and also have an opportunity to give people second chances when they have made mistakes in the past in other organizations.”Luhnow has masterfully built the Astros into a World Series champion, with a talented and likable roster that should keep the team competitive for years. He said he had done extensive background work before making the deal, including speaking with Osuna.But the choice of Osuna over Giles makes it seem as if the Astros’ real zero-tolerance policy is for Giles’s misdeeds, not Osuna’s — a disturbing message from a team that should have found a better option.Follow Tyler Kepner on Twitter: @TylerKepner.Tyler Kepner has been national baseball writer since 2010. He joined The Times in 2000 and covered the Mets for two seasons, then covered the Yankees from 2002 to 2009.  @TylerKepner Advertisement