AdvertisementSupported byBy Tal PinchevskyJust past the midway point of a scoreless Game 4 on April 20, Florida Panthers forward Jonathan Huberdeau took a long pass from Jaromir Jagr and rushed toward the Islanders’ net, defenseman Ryan Pulock in hot pursuit.The play ended with Huberdeau splayed before Islanders goaltender Thomas Greiss and the puck in the net. Huberdeau had crashed into Greiss moments before his skate drove the puck into the net.But the chaos on the ice was marginal compared to the confusion surrounding whether the play was a goal.It turned into the latest strange moment in the era of the coach’s challenge, which seems to be finding balance as the Stanley Cup playoffs roll along.About a week into the postseason, Huberdeau’s play was called no goal on the ice and appeared to be a perfect example after weeks of heated discussion over the challenge system, which was introduced this season.The referee’s no-goal decision was upheld twice, first by the Situation Room in Toronto and then again after Florida Coach Gerard Gallant challenged the call of goalie interference.That bizarre moment marked a turning point for the coach’s challenge. Though there is still plenty of playoff hockey left, N.H.L. coaches have grown gun-shy since the opening week of the playoffs. Since the night of Huberdeau’s no-goal, only one coach’s challenge has been issued in 17 games, compared with 13 challenges in the first 30 postseason games. The initial surge in the postseason was a marked increase from the regular season, in which there were 266 challenges in 1,230 games, or slightly more than one every fifth game.Coaches give up their only timeout by requesting video reviews for calls of offside or goalie interference. The addition in the postseason of extra cameras at the blue lines and in the crossbars of nets added an extra layer of sophistication to the review process.“The coach’s challenge, I think, is working well,” N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman said last week. “It’s doing exactly what we expected. This was to give our officials an opportunity to see, on what was a judgment call, could they make a better call? And that’s what we’ve called it: the better call.”For the time being, coaches appear to have abandoned cries of goalie interference in an effort to overturn a goal. Of the eight challenges citing goalie interference entering play Wednesday, none of the goals were overturned.Coaches claiming that a goal followed a missed offside call had greater success, with four of six challenges overturning a goal. Those victorious challenges proved consequential, as three of the four teams that won their challenges went on to win the game.With the exception of the Huberdeau play and a St. Louis Blues goal by Vladimir Tarasenko that was  overturned because Jori Lehtera was ruled barely offside in Game 2 against the Chicago Blackhawks, the challenge has not been a major source of dispute during the postseason. (About three minutes after Tarasenko’s goal was waived off, Andrew Shaw scored to give the Blackhawks a 2-1 lead — a goal that was upheld after the Blues challenged over goalie interference. Chicago won the game, but St. Louis took the series in seven games.)“When a coach says he’s challenging something, it’s a close call sometimes, and sometimes it’s a hard call to make,” Bettman said. “Our guys are doing the best that they can to get it right.”He added: “We’re constantly trying to move forward on what technology is available to us. But as you see from other sports implementing video replay, it’s not easy.”That Gallant would challenge a play after it had already been rendered moot by an official replay is hardly surprising. The Panthers issued 13 challenges during the regular season, ranking third in the N.H.L. behind the San Jose Sharks and Toronto Maple Leafs.But entering Game 7 of their series Wednesday night, the Anaheim Ducks and the Nashville Predators had not used a single challenge. Then again, Anaheim’s three challenges during the regular season ranked second-lowest in the N.H.L., behind the Islanders’ two.Islanders Coach Jack Capuano has become more aggressive in the playoffs, matching his 82-game challenge total from the regular season during the Islanders’ six-game series win over the Panthers.One of Capuano’s challenges resulted in an overturned goal by Florida defenseman Aaron Ekblad in Game 3, which reviews found had been preceded by a missed offside call. The goal would have given the Panthers a 3-0 lead in a game they eventually lost, 4-3, in overtime.“The N.H.L. wants to get it right,” Capuano said the day after the Game 3 win. “I listen to all these controversies about whether it’s right or wrong. At the end of the day, you want to make the call right. We’ve been on the other side of it. To me, if that’s the integrity of the game that we want to make sure is in place, that’s fine with me.”A picture caption on Thursday with an article about the way the coach’s challenge replay system was used in the first round of the N.H.L. playoffs misstated, in some copies, the given name of the Florida Panthers’ coach. As the article correctly noted, he is Gerard Gallant, not Gerald.Naila-Jean Meyers and Allan Kreda contributed reporting.Advertisement