AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie RobenhymerOn April 19, 2011, the Los Angeles Kings and the San Jose Sharks were tied at 5-5 in Game 3 of their first-round N.H.L. playoff series when the ESPN broadcaster John Buccigross posted on Twitter, “I got Doughty and Pavelski for my OT winners.”With that act, he started a tradition that now engages thousands of hockey fans as soon as a game heads to overtime.Buccigross said it was a little game he used to play with Barry Melrose and Ray Ferraro when they were on “NHL 2nite.”“Our show didn’t start until the last game finished, and when they’d go to overtime, we’d throw a dollar on the table and pick a guy from each team, and if your guy scored, you got the extra two bucks, and if none of our guys scored, we’d take our dollar back, put it in our pocket and start the show.”The show has been off the air since 2004. When he sent that message out on Twitter, he simply wanted to play the game again.“It was like an instant scratch ticket,” Buccigross said. “It was easy. It heightened the experience of watching the game. It gave you something to root for, and it was a way to gamble without losing any money.”But that first night, he got enough responses from his legion of followers that he kept doing it as more playoff games went into overtime. He randomly picked a few winners among the correct guesses. (The game-winner was scored by Devin Setoguchi for the Sharks.)At the time, he offered only retweets as a prize for being right.“I noticed there was real currency in being retweeted, and people used to get real mad at me when they’d guess right but I didn’t pick them as one of the random winners — I’m talking real mad — but then they started getting really creative and including funny GIFs with their disappointment tweet, so I started retweeting some of those, too,” Buccigross said.Twelve days later, when Alex Ovechkin scored with 68 seconds left in regulation to tie Game 3 against the Tampa Bay Lightning and force the extra session, Buccigross gave the game a name and started using the hashtag #bucciovertimechallenge. (Tampa Bay won the game on Vincent Lecavalier’s overtime goal.)Now, #bucciovertimechallenge becomes an instant trending topic across North America anytime a playoff game, or even a regular-season game, goes into overtime.“Most of the stuff I do happens by accident,” Buccigross said. “I’m not that smart, so if I come up with a good idea, there’s a very good chance I didn’t even mean to do it. I had no intention of creating a brand. I just wanted to see if it could trend. So it threw it out there.”It caught on, and thousands participated by the time the Boston Bruins won the Stanley Cup that year.Buccigross thought, “Maybe next year, I’ll do T-shirts.” He put the idea to his followers and decided to go for it.He figured he would just send them to the winners, but as soon as he released the picture of a simple white T-shirt with the hashtag across the chest, he started getting messages asking how to buy them.Demand was strong enough that he decided to sell them, with all profits to be donated to hockey-related charities at the end of the year. That first year, he had no website for his business, so buyers would send cash or checks with their orders in the mail. He raised enough money to donate $17,000 to charities like Defending the Blueline, the Mario Lemieux Foundation, You Can Play, the Travis Roy Foundation and Hockey in Harlem.In its five years, the hashtag #bucciovertimechallenge has been used nearly two million times, according to Twitter. With the introduction of a website and an expanded product line that now includes hats and tank tops, Buccigross has been able to donate nearly $150,000 and expects to add at least $50,000 to that total this July.He has generated enough interest that Bauer, a hockey equipment manufacturer, and TiqIQ, a ticket sales website, offer prizes for the winners.Buccigross’s social media enterprises have grown beyond the overtime challenge. In 2013, he started using another hashtag, #cawlidgehawkey — inspired by the movie “Miracle” — when he did the play-by-play of the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time. He added this to his apparel line with a T-shirt and hats in various school colors.This year, he introduced a shirt with the #thinmints hashtag, after the popular Girl Scout cookies that resemble hockey pucks, a reference he often uses on “SportsCenter” when calling highlights.Buccigross stores his apparel in a room above his garage, where he personally packages each order and prints the shipping label before taking it to the post office. On an average day, he will get up to 10 orders, but there are days, such as when he launches a new product, when he will get more than 100 orders. He will spend a whole day getting them out the door.With more than 300,000 Twitter followers, he knows his reach is large, but he also knows that he is reaching only a small slice of hockey fans.Still, there were more than 18,000 tweets with the hashtag last Sunday after Game 6 of the series between the Islanders and the Panthers went into overtime. In a first, Buccigross announced a winner on “SportsCenter” that night. Buccigross said he happened to be working when it happened and thought it would be fun to introduce that twist because John Tavares’s goal in the second overtime was a series clincher.“I love that people enjoy playing the game, but the real hysterical part for me is when it’s trending,” he said with a laugh. “It’s just a silly little game,” he added, “but as a hockey community, we’ve been able to do some really great things because of it. I’m just really so shocked by what it’s become.”Advertisement