AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWarren Foegele and Dougie Hamilton each scored two goals as the Carolina Hurricanes, despite being down to 10 forwards for most of the game, trounced the visiting Washington Capitals 5-0 in Game 3 of their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series Monday at Raleigh, N.C.It was the first home playoff game in 10 years for the Hurricanes, with PNC Arena full of energy. The Capitals hold a 2-1 series lead going to Game 4 on Thursday night in Raleigh.Brock McGinn added a goal and an assist, and Carolina goalie Petr Mrazek stopped 18 shots for his fifth career playoff victory -- four of them shutouts. Washington, the defending Stanley Cup champions, had won six straight postseason games dating to last season.Hurricanes rookie Andrei Svechnikov, 19, exited in the first period after he was dropped by a punch from Alex Ovechkin. Svechnikov, who appeared to be knocked out, hit the back of his head on the ice as he fell. Carolina's Micheal Ferland also left in the first period because of an upper-body injury.Avalanche 6, Flames 2Nathan MacKinnon had two goals and an assist, Cale Makar scored in his NHL debut, and Colorado put 56 shots on goal while beating Calgary in Denver in a Western Conference quarterfinal series. Makar played Saturday for UMass in the NCAA championship game.Mikko Rantanen and Matt Nieto had a goal and an assist each, Erik Johnson also scored, and Philipp Grubauer stopped 25 shots for eighth-seeded Colorado, which took a 2-1 series lead over the top-seeded Flames.Sam Bennett and TJ Brodie produced goals, and Mike Smith made 50 saves for the Flames. Calgary has dropped the past two games in the series after shutting out the Avalanche 4-0 in Game 1. The Flames allowed two power-play goals and a short-handed tally Monday.Predators 3, Stars 2Mikael Granlund's goal midway through the third period broke a deadlock, and Pekka Rinne sparkled in net as visiting Nashville defeated Dallas and took the lead in their opening round Western Conference playoff series.The Stars had all the momentum, and not just because they had erased a two-goal deficit, when Granlund sent a long wrist shot that somehow beat Ben Bishop with 8:19 left on the clock.The Predators held on the rest of the way thanks to Rinne to take a 2-1 edge in the best-of-seven series. Rinne made 40 saves, including a mammoth stop on Jamie Benn right after the Stars made it a 2-2 game.Maple Leafs 3, Bruins 2Auston Matthews and Andreas Johnsson each had a goal and an assist as Toronto defeated visiting Boston. The Maple Leafs took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.Trevor Moore also scored for Toronto, while David Krejci and Charlie Coyle scored for Boston.Frederik Andersen stopped 34 shots in the Toronto goal. On the opposite end of the rink, Tuukka Rask made 31 saves for Boston.--Field Level MediaAdvertisement