AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro HockeyBy Ben ShpigelLAS VEGAS — The four other Washington Capitals starters had assembled along the blue line Monday night for the singing of the national anthem, but Alex Ovechkin just kept skating in circles, one after another after another.There’s an impulse to assign meaning to the mundane, to extract a deeper significance from an act as ordinary as sitting alone gazing onto the ice before practice, as Ovechkin did Sunday, when he must have been pondering the magnitude of the moment, four victories from his first championship — unless, of course, he wasn’t.“No,” Ovechkin said. “I just do it all the time.”But before the 117th playoff game of his career, his first in the Stanley Cup finals, after waiting almost 13 years for this day, Ovechkin had to be feeling something — anxiety, adrenaline, tension — and he was.He addressed the roiling emotions within the context of what he hopes will be and not in terms of what happened Monday night amid the showgirls and Elvis impersonators at T-Mobile Arena: a 6-4 defeat to that improbable juggernaut known as the Vegas Golden Knights in which Ovechkin was credited with an assist, a few hits and not much else.“Next game is going to be different,” Ovechkin said. “All the nervousness, the bad things, goes away from this game.”So many bad things surfaced for the Capitals during a hyperkinetic opener that featured the most lead changes (four), according to the Elias Sports Bureau, in Stanley Cup finals history. There was poor play beneath Washington’s goal line; a wobbly Braden Holtby in net; a reckless Tom Wilson, who blindsided Vegas forward Jonathan Marchessault with a third-period shoulder check; and a non-call on Vegas’s Ryan Reaves right before he scored a game-changing goal in the third period.Most disorienting was the ineffectiveness of the Capitals’ top line, headlined by Ovechkin and the resplendent center Evgeny Kuznetsov, which had combined for 58 points in 19 games these playoffs. But on Monday they were outpaced by Vegas’s fourth line, which scored three goals. The Golden Knights hounded Ovechkin, denying him clear looks and minimizing his impact until the very end: With Holtby pulled for an extra attacker, Tomas Nosek blocked Ovechkin’s attempted pass to Wilson in the waning seconds and converted it into an empty-net goal.“As a whole we can play a lot better,” Coach Barry Trotz said, deflecting a question about whether Ovechkin and Kuznetsov played to their standards. “That’s exciting to me. I know we’ve got another level to our game. It’s going to be our whole roster.”It was a tactful response from a coach seasoned in diplomacy. Trotz prefers to convey messages in private, as he did last summer when he visited Ovechkin in Russia to impart advice that would define his revival: Keep growing.In a league trending younger and faster, Ovechkin, 32, needed to evolve. He tallied 49 goals during the regular season and 12 more through the first three rounds of the playoffs, marrying a renewed off-the-puck commitment with his customary scoring prowess.“It’s not just the goal scoring,” Trotz said Sunday. “Alex understands the complete game.”Trotz also described Ovechkin as being “on a little bit of a mission.” When Ovechkin skated onto the ice for warm-ups, he did not wear a helmet, his unruly mop grayer than a seal, and he twirled his stick as a drum major would a baton. Once the game started, he engaged in all three zones, with uneven results, pummeling Luca Sbisa with a hit but miscalculating on a stick-check of William Karlsson.On the Capitals’ lone power-play, Ovechkin failed to corral with his backhand a one-time pass from John Carlson, and the sequence sputtered. He tended to linger in his favorite spot, by the left circle, waiting for opportunities to release his slap shot; opportunities rarely came.When he did stray, he was rewarded. Floating toward the net, he fired two quick shots from in close — his only shots on goal — that his old nemesis, Marc-Andre Fleury, smothered. Early in the third, Ovechkin found a sliver of space in the high slot and released a one-timer that Wilson redirected under Fleury’s pads, giving Washington a 4-3 lead. It lasted 91 seconds.Across his 12 prior seasons in Washington, Ovechkin, listed at 6-foot-3 and 235 pounds, emerged as a sui generis power forward, capable of blasting a puck by the goalie or through him and then administering a bone-rattling check on the very next shift. In time he has become a somewhat paradoxical figure: the reason the Capitals roared to relevance who is also considered the reason they had never reached even an Eastern Conference finals with him.Any honest appraisal of Ovechkin, though, must account for gradations: He has thrived and struggled, delighted and disappointed, flourished on mediocre teams and wilted on better ones, all while averaging nearly a point per game in the postseason. It is exceedingly rare for a player to have excelled for so long without reaching this stage: Only Dave Andreychuk scored more regular-season goals (634) than Ovechkin (607) before appearing in the Cup finals.Sitting in the NHL Network trailer Sunday afternoon, the former players Mike Rupp and Kevin Weekes, now analysts, assessed the totality of Ovechkin’s career.Rupp: “Where would you put him today in the greatest players ever? Thirty? Forty? Fifty? Or is he higher?”Weekes: “Top 25, probably.”Rupp: “If he wins the Cup, top seven?”Weekes nodded.Rupp: “That’s not fair.”It is to the N.H.L.’s eternal benefit that Ovechkin and Pittsburgh Penguins center Sidney Crosby debuted together in 2005 after a season-long lockout, two generational stars packaged in a rivalry as one against the other — reliable foils, as if they were tennis players. But like Rafael Nadal on clay, Crosby at the biggest moments diminished Ovechkin, who captured plenty of individual honors — the Calder Trophy as the top rookie, three Hart Trophies as the league’s most valuable player, seven Maurice Richard Trophies as the leading goal-scorer — but never approached Crosby’s team success.It was Crosby who helped eliminate Russia in the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, then scored the overtime goal that secured a gold medal for Canada. It was Crosby who won gold four years later in Sochi, in Ovechkin’s homeland, as the Russians crashed out. It was Crosby who won three Stanley Cups, ousting Ovechkin each time.“If Ovi played for the Los Angeles Kings this whole time, he’d get his due,” said Rupp, who played with Crosby on the Penguins. “But he’s playing for Pittsburgh’s rival and Pittsburgh would win every year. It’s almost like he gets labeled that he doesn’t know how to do it.”It was Crosby, too, who was surrounded by a more complete and cohesive team — one with a stronger will. When the Capitals finished with the league’s best record in 2016 and 2017, high expectations grounded them. Pressure seeped into the locker room, defenseman Brooks Orpik said, and players felt it.“But now he’s got horses that are galloping with him,” Weekes said of Ovechkin. “Now, the cavalry’s there.”The Capitals have seven players with more than 10 points this postseason, and all but one (Lars Eller) contributed Monday. When Ovechkin trudged into Washington’s locker room afterward, he was still breathing hard, drained by the relentless pace. The Capitals’ public relations staff halted the interview after 2 minutes 38 seconds, but not before Ovechkin said he expected the Capitals to rebound, expressing confidence that they would.As he spoke, Ovechkin’s face carried a hint of a scowl, much as it did with about 7 minutes left in the first, when a wayward puck banged him in the nose off his visor. Ovechkin, standing at the end of Washington’s bench, hardly flinched. Battered but unbowed, no closer to a Cup than he was when the day dawned, he gets another chance on Wednesday.Follow Ben Shpigel on Twitter: @benshpigelAdvertisement