AdvertisementSupported byWordplayRyan McCarty starts our solving weekend off right.By Deb AmlenI like to think that I am more than proficient in my knowledge of hot beverages, but today I learned about a new one called HYSON tea, spelled as the plural in Ryan McCarty’s puzzle. There is also a brand named Hyson, but the tea we sip at the end of Mr. McCarty’s puzzle is a green tea from China. Fun fact: 15 chests of Young Hyson were among those thrown overboard in the Boston Tea Party. See? You never know what you’ll learn by solving crossword puzzles.There’s a lot of great stuff in Mr. McCarty’s puzzle, including 10 debuts. Of those, my favorites were WAR STORIES, CORPSE POSE (my best pose in yoga, because it essentially requires nothing more than lying on the floor and taking a nap), WATER TAXIS and, of course, RARE JEWELS, which made me think of George Balanchine’s ballet:Even the entries that aren’t debuts are lots of fun. We have I’M A COP, NOT ONE IOTA, STARTER SET, AIRPOPS, NO USE, PRIDE PARADE (with a fabulous clue), JEEZ, NAME CALLER and OH STOP.The cluing is challenging and fun, and I found it to be an all around enjoyable entry into our solving weekend. Well done, Mr. McCarty.1A: Why can’t I remember this one? The television show “Dragnet” was a bit before my time, but I remember watching it in reruns. And yet every time Sgt. Joe Friday is mentioned in a crossword clue, all I can think of is either the ominous theme, “Dah … dah DUM dum!” or his ubiquitous “Just the facts, ma’am.” But at the beginning of each episode, Jack Webb, who played Sergeant Friday in the series, would intone: “This is the city: Los Angeles, California. I work here. I’M A COP.”7A: One of those clues that sounds like a riddle: “It’s not damaged by being broken.” If someone breaks the LAW, the law itself isn’t damaged.25A: We’re not supposed to be thinking about senators in politics in this clue. “Senators’ grp.” hints at the hockey team, the Ottawa Senators, and the answer is the also abbreviated NHL.30A: This gets my vote for Clue of the Day. To “Outmarch?” someone is to march farther or perhaps faster, but with that “?” at the end of the clue, there is some Wordplay afoot. Today, the answer is PRIDE PARADE, a celebration of those who are out.53A: You might think that a “Canyon producer” might be a meteorite, but that would be too easy for a Friday. In today’s puzzle, the carmaker GMC produces the Canyon. That, by the way, is a veiled capital clue. The capital letter in the brand name Canyon is hidden at the beginning of the clue sentence to trick the solver. You can practice on more of these in our solving guide. This puzzle is somewhat of a tribute to Patrick Berry’s Jan. 10, 2014, puzzle. I fell in love with his wide open grid, and it was after solving it that I decided to try making themeless puzzles myself. Several years later, my version has a similar layout to his, with a “gaping maw” (as I affectionately like to call it) in the middle.It took a lot of trial and error, as you might imagine, to fill the center. My goal was to make each of the longer entries in both the five stacked Across answers and the four interlocking Down answers interesting, as well as to stay away from proper names, as I had had a habit of overusing them. Over all, I’m very satisfied with the result.My effort to also keep the corners wide open came with some sacrifices. The NW feels a bit like Jenga, with all of those interlocking shorter words, and the SE has the unfortunate plural HYSONS, which I personally accepted only because I had actually had hyson tea before. It allowed me to keep RARE JEWELS though, so looking back I still think it’s justified. Even so, it may have been worth adding an extra black square to these corners to give some more wiggle room. …I enjoy making lower word count themeless puzzles, so I’ll probably stick with these types for a while. Hope you enjoy!Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?Deb Amlen is the crossword columnist. She has been writing the Wordplay column since 2011 and believes that everyone can learn to solve the Times crossword. Even the Saturdays.  @NYTimesWordplay Advertisement