AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkThis will be our last Current Events Conversation of 2018. We’ll return with our regular roundup of student comments on Jan. 10.__________Even as schools have been winding down for winter break, our writing prompts have continued to light up. This week, students discussed a plethora of holiday-themed topics, including weighing in on the hot-button song of the season, “Baby, It’s Cold Outside,” celebrating this year’s everyday heroes and deciding which one word best sums up 2018.But our most popular prompt of the week was suggested by Brett Vogelsinger, a teacher at Holicong Middle School in Doylestown, Penn., who posted this on Twitter:Great piece by @DTWillingham that helps me answer students who say I’m cheating when I read audiobooks. Maybe @NYTimesLearning will have students discussing this one this week? https://t.co/fGt19ue9eSMr. Vogelsinger’s suggestion became our Student Opinion question “Is Listening to a Book Just as Good as Reading It?” and received hundreds of comments.We at The Learning Network scour The New York Times each day to find high-interest content for your classes to discuss and write about in our daily writing prompts. But no one knows what you or your students are interested in better than, well, you.So, teachers and students, do you have ideas for questions we might ask or articles we should discuss in our writing prompts? Let us know any time by leaving a comment here, tweeting us @NYTimesLearning or writing to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com. We’d love to call out your suggestions in our next roundup.And, before we go, welcome to new classes from: Beverly, Mass.; Holicong Middle School; and Silverton, Ore. Thanks for joining us this week!Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.__________In “Is Listening to a Book the Same Thing as Reading It?” Daniel T. Willingham, a psychologist, writes about the differences between listening to audiobooks and reading print. He concludes that each is best suited to different purposes, and neither is superior. In this Student Opinion question, we asked students what they thought.The prompt sparked a robust conversation about the benefits and drawbacks of audiobooks. We especially loved the way students used the “Reply” and “Recommend” buttons to highlight comments, build on each other’s ideas and strengthen their arguments. Here is some of the best of what they had to say:There’s nothing else like reading a bookListening to an audio-book can be beneficial to us, especially when we can’t physically read a book. However, the experience of an audio book will never be able to be as good as reading it. When you’re listening to an audio book, you’re listening to someone else read the story to you, in their tone, at their tempo. There’s not much left for the listener to interpret in the book.While hearing a reader may help us understand a scene more, it doesn’t allow for us to have our own thoughts and opinions of a scene … Reading a book allows you to be the character, instead of letting someone else be the character. While an audio book does offer some convenience in different situations, it’ll never be able to build the suspense of a physical novel.— Felix Zhang, Holicong Middle SchoolIt is my opinion that reading a book is much more beneficial then listening to it. When you listen to a book it is much easier to get distracted and find yourself thinking of other things. Books, however, require you to use your brain and continually remain focused on the topic you are reading. When listening to an audio book, there is a pre-recorded voice that won’t stop if you start to lose focus. However, when reading a book you are forced in a way to pay attention as you read as you are putting in the work to actually read it. Reading is much better for you just because it forces you to think the entire time while audio books make it easy to stop listening.— Joshua Lyzinski, Holicong Middle School… For me, the simple act of listening to the book will never have the same satisfaction as flipping pages in anticipation as you’re desperately wondering what may happen next.— Eli Carter, Oxford, Miss.By seeing the physical work, the reader can not only comprehend better, as mentioned in the article, but also learn more about writing from reading. The reader is able to see how the author formatted sentences and connected ideas. The reader can improve their own writing skills while they are learning about the topic they chose to read about. Reading others’ work is a critical step for practicing writing in the English language.— Allie Miller, Holicong Middle SchoolThe benefits of listeningAs someone who is dyslexic, reading on a page while is possible for me, can be a battle between my brain and the very words which make up the story I wish to immerse myself in. I often find myself getting lost and drowning in the sea of print, words oftentimes disguising themselves as other words to convey a confusing narrative that the author did not intend. Listening to a book for me, helps me to envision and dissect the author’s intentions and the plot to form a new understanding of the book …Some literature traditionalists may argue that something is lost in the subtraction of print and that we as a society are becoming lazy and to that I say it was not too long ago when people with dyslexia such as myself would have been deemed stupid because of our inability to think and process in the same way that other people can. We are not becoming lazy, we are learning how to adapt to our own styles of learning and setting ourselves up for success.— Paloma, VermontI believe listening to a book is just as good as reading. Whenever I listen to a book I get to focus more on the picture the author is trying to create rather than the text. As the narrator reads the text the story plays in my head like a movie and that gives me an overall better experience than reading a book. Reading a book keeps from fully visualizing the story as I read because I have to concentrate on the text. Listening to a book also help me with comprehension. Sometimes when reading a book I have a hard time differentiating the characters as I read because in my head I’m reading the story in the same voice. I wish my teacher would assign audiobooks in class I believe it could make reading books in class more interesting.— Sophia Jourdan, OrlandoTeachers should give students audio books to listen to. I believe audio books would help me and many others do better in a test. Lots of kids tend to learn better when listening to a text instead of reading the text. A great way for audio books to help students is by reading along with the book while it’s being read to you.— Samantha30, SilvertonDifferent texts for different purposesThese two different kinds of books are better in their own way for their own reasons. A more kinesthetic learner-who is more hands on-find it easier to look and copy things I need from the book. A more auditory learner-who learns better through active discussions and listening-would benefit from listening to the story while copying down key details and information.— Guitano Fleurant, Holicong Middle SchoolIn the past, I have used audio books and I have noticed that listening to a story has helped me to further understand it and has overall made reading less of a homework assignment and instead turned it into more of a fun activity or even a hobby …While I do not think that teachers should assign audio books instead of real books, I do think that students should have the option to choose audio books over real books because every child has a different way of learning and for some of those children audio books could be the best way for them to learn, in turn making them further understand the topic and preform higher on tests or assignments.— Ryan Reiser, Holicong Middle SchoolIn most cases, audiobooks are simply a way to read a book in a situation where reading would otherwise be impossible … Rather than blasting Spotify during the morning commute, one could play an audiobook in hopes of learning something. Of course, reading a physical book gives the reader the best chance to fully appreciate a text, but reading a physical book is not always an option. Rather than seeing audiobooks as a replacement for the printed word, perhaps it should be seen as a substitution for what would otherwise be a wasted opportunity to learn.— Quinn Roche, Holicong Middle School__________As the end of the 2018 approaches, The Times has been publishing all manner of year-end lists. From important scientific discoveries to the year’s best songs, movies, books and more, Times critics and journalists have sought to weave the story of 2018. We wondered: What story would students tell of this year?They told us all about the exciting, heartbreaking, inspirational and challenging moments in their own lives and the world that made 2018 a year to remember. Here are a few of the highlights:A year worth celebrating For me, 2018 has been an extremely fun year for me. Whereas 2017 I had to deal with a lot of change, this year was mostly just me enjoying the little things in life. I’m hugely into the entertainment industry and I believe that is what made this year so great for me. Many, many spectacular films have been released this year such as A Quiet Place and Mission: Impossible - Fallout. There was also great video games such as Spider-Man or God of War. It wasn’t just entertainment though, I feel as if I have truly found my friend group and I know for a fact who is going to stick around. I also made a new friend this year, and she is just the best friend that I have ever gotten.— Aidan Naran, Somewhere 2018 Has been such an exciting year for me. This year for 8th grade I switched schools from a very small private school to a huge public school. This was definitely the best thing for me because all my life I had gone to that private school with twenty one kids in my entire grade. Coming to this new school was like a breath of fresh air. Thankfully I had already knew a couple of friends here. They introduced me to their friends and they introduced me to their friends. Things have been going great here and I’ve never been happier. I wish I had done this years ago.— Natalie, MassachusetsA year of ups and downs The year of 2018 had many ups and downs. Some of these positive things include my hometown NFL team winning the SuperBowl. The Philadelphia Eagles won against the Patriots. Another good thing about 2018 is that I personally got accepted to Masterman a very good school. This also comes with a downside which is I had to leave my old school filled with all my friends. Some good things about 2018 are all the good movies. These include: Black Panther, Avengers Infinity War, Uncle Drew, and much more.A downside of 2018 is shootings. There have been more than 1,000 gun incidents in 2018 such as the synagogue shooting, Parkland shooting and bar shootings. Other downsides include deaths of some popular people like xxxtentacion, Stephen Hillenburg- the creator of SpongeBob, Stan Lee- creator of Marvel Avengers, and many more. Other downsides are raging fires in California. Let’s hope these downside will not show up again in 2019— Aryan Patel, Philadelphia, Penn., MastermanTwenty-eighteen has had many ups and downs, both in my personal life and the public specter. It was full of good music, movies, and progress, but there was also a lot of negativity and trivial controversy. If I had to make my own 2018 Top 10 list it would definitely include the way that minorities and their supporters stood up against those who chose to mistreat others. I would also include the huge artistic strides we have made this year. Films are getting more artistic and music getting more daring. An appreciation for the arts has truly been prevalent this year.However, 2018 also had a lot of downfalls. There was an outbreak in violence and hate crimes without warning. Children were killed in their schools, family were gassed at the border, and people were killed for their differences. The lack of acceptance and empathy was one of the worst parts of 2018 for me.However, there are some reasons why I will be sad to see this year pass by. In recent months I have really started to make lifelong friends who stand by my side and I’ve managed to make huge strides for my mental health. It’s been a very eye-opening year to say the least. But there is a flip-side to all these things as well. In order to reach the place that I am in now, I’ve gone through some very hard days and deal with bouts of sadness that often never seemed like they would end. Despite this, I know that everything myself and all those who struggled this year will help us in the long run.— Leela Hoerschelmann, Bryant High School, Ark.A year for personal growthI really admired all of the students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland who responded so strongly to the shooting and called on our government for gun reform. They are so brave, dedicated, and amazing. This was more personal for me because over the summer I got to know Casey Sherman, lead organizer of the March for our Lives in Parkland and currently a senior at MSD (she was my CIT at overnight camp). Casey is all around a wonderful person: She is so kind, a great leader, and unafraid to stand up for what she knows is right. I feel inspired by Casey, and I also feel lucky to know someone so amazing …Not only have I been inspired by Casey, but knowing her has also given me an entirely new perspective on the shooting. Before, when I heard about shootings, I thought, “Oh, this is horrible,” but that was really it. Now that I have a personal connection to a survivor of a school shooting, it seems much more real to me, as I can imagine it happening to someone I know. Knowing a survivor also makes it seem so much worse. Innocent students are being killed, in America of all places, because mentally ill people can get access to guns. We need gun reform and we need it now. If Casey has taught me anything, it is that you should always speak up for what you believe in, and even a 16- or 17-year-old can make a big difference.— Sivan Frankel, Philadelphia, Penn.This year marks another monumental change in my life- however, it was a slow burn. It didn’t happen all at once; it was more of numerous changes in my perception that have changed who I am. Mostly, my world view has changed. As I grow older, I kept understanding the weight of too many bad decisions, hatred, fear, and misguided thinking that produce a lot of bad in the world. There have been shootings seemly around every corner and words of hate tossed around too easily.But something hit closer to home this year. Not only on the news, but a murmur in my own home, the topic of every phone call and rant of my mother’s was the state of her maiden country: Venezuela. It was this year when I started understanding the gravity of what was going on and the suffering taking place. Since news would constantly relay to me that it was only getting worse, the fear that my grandparents would replace the people I saw starving in news articles creeped into the back of my mind. My cousin would tell me her horror stories of tear gas and guns ricocheting, my aunt would send videos of her walks in empty grocery stores, and my uncle would share that he had waited six hours to get gasoline for the week.Comprehending how this could be happening to those closest to me made me rethink all that I value, but our family’s struggles has only brought us closer. Overall, I’ll be happy to leave behind the stress and turmoil of this year. I’m thankful for 2018, but I hope 2019 will be kinder.— Michelle Lamas, Hoggard High School, Wilmington, N.C.__________In our Picture Prompt, “Leap,” we invited students to write a short story or poem inspired by the photo above. With clear character development and excellent pacing, they wove short narratives about taking leaps of faith and finding freedom in fearlessness.ThalassophobiaI hadn’t always imagined I’d get close to the ocean. But I watched the years go by, as my peers went through elementary to middle to high school, as they excitedly shared anecdotes of going to beach or waterskiing or the sensation of the fresh ocean air. The turtle illustrations in the picture books, the sailor analogies prevalent in everyday conversations, the lapping of the bathwater as I relaxed in the tub — all somehow reminded me of the very body of water that I’d been afraid of all my life. Thalassophobia. Just another irrational phobia, but one that impacted my understanding of the world. I’d never thought I’d overcome that fear of the incredible vastness, the ocean that covers over 70 percent of our planet. I was fine around lakes, rivers, creeks, but once the unimaginable depth and mysteries of the ocean came into play, I’d start shaking. What made me finally get close to it? To jump right in?— Helen D., San Jose, Calif.Splash!Jumping off I feel every weight lifted off my shoulder not a thought in my head. As the wind rustles through my hair I feel free. The water sits still below me until splash! Pulled down by an invisible force until I get pulled back up. My head emerges from the water and I remember where I am.— Aaliyah Hurley, Beverly Mass.FreeOne, she looks over the ledge to see the calm seas and cloudy skies that hang above her like the dread and gloom that once filled her before. Stepping over the ledges means that she wins, she finally defeats her inner demons, the small ideas of unworthiness and self doubt that spiral into deep depths of depression and anxiety. If she can bring herself to cross that ledge then she wins. Step by step, she inches closer to the edge and her doubts engulfs her, fear takes over, and she decides to walk back. Two steps before her feet reach the ground, she turns around and leaps. The jump happens in slow motion as she frees herself of every minuscule thought and doubt. She’s finally free.— Aniyah S., ProvidenceFearFear ran through my veins, The fear of never being good enough, the fear of losing, the fear of loneliness, the fear of the dark suffocated me, I became comfortable in my fear drawn boundaries, I submitted, I answered to it when it called, i gave up when it told me to, I backed away when it told me i could never even try, Every now and then, i tried to escape it but it kept drawing me in, I became tired of being fearful, Of being tortured and attacked, i needed to release myself, Here i stand, at the edge of the free waters and air, i stand here watching, envying the waves, i looked down and it stared me in the face, it told me that i would not dare, that i could not, I took a step, I looked up to the a unconfined sky, Then I took a step, I watched the birds fly by, took a step, I watched the sun rise, I stood for a moment, pondering on absolutely nothing, Then, I allowed myself to free fall, Fear had left me to my solitude.— Nyleah F., Providence, R.I.JumpJump. That is the only thing going through my mind. Jump. It’ll feel like a rush. Jump. My heart is pounding. Jump. I’m scared. Jump. I’m nervous. Jump. It’ll be alright. Jump. All it takes is one step. Jump. So. Jump. I guess. Jump. I’ll take it. Fall.— Elizabeth G., R.I.On the edge14 year old Sonia Raymonds stood on the edge of the board, thinking about what she was about to do. She had been severely bullied throughout her entire life; first at a young age by her stepfather then by the girls in her school. She’d dealt with being raped, she recently lost her sister and she just didn’t want to live anymore. Her mom told her to hold on, to keep fighting, but she didn’t really have control over her anymore. She had a broken mind with depression reigning supreme. Sonia thought of the only thing that had kept her going, her sister. She was gone. And she was never coming back. Whenever Sonia had had a particularly bad day, her sister would help her through it and vise versa. Now, the only thing keeping Sonia alive was the fear of death, and things had gotten so bad lately that even that fear seemed small. Why keep living when you’re living in hell? Sonia thought. She took one last look at the cold forbidding waters below. They didn’t seem so bad anymore … more like a gateway to heaven. To peace. I can finally be free … she thought. Sonia took one last look and jumped.— Jake Thibert, Bend International SchoolAdventurousI’ve always wanted to be adventurous but I never knew how. The anxiety builds up and I never go through with it. Now I am in a position I thought I’d never be in. Standing on top of a clip high above the water. I get different reactions from my friends. voices overlapping each other. “don’t do it if you don’t want to,” “do it, it will be fun.” I tuned out everybody as my heartbeat filled my ears. My chest tightens and everything around me was a blur. Maybe I was never meant to be the adventurous, spontaneous type. Maybe I was made to stay at home and lock myself from the real world. No, I am where I am for a reason. I felt a hand grasp my shoulder. I look back and see my friend with a disappointed yet sincere smile. His hand is still on my shoulder as we back away from the cliff. I push his hand off as I run toward the cliff and take a big leap. As I jumped there were many gasps and cheers. I landed in the water and looked up. My friends were cheering and shouting my name. A sense of adrenaline was coursing through my body. If it wasn’t for my friends supporting me through any decision, I wouldn’t have done it. I would have went straight home and never looked back.— Arendy, ProvidenceAdvertisement