AdvertisementSupported byWhat's Going On in This Graph?By The Learning NetworkUpdated: December 13, 20181. The graph below originally appeared elsewhere on NYTimes.com. Note that when the cursor or pointer hovers over a data point, the name of a running shoe appears. On the afternoon of Dec. 13 we will provide additional background about the graph as well as relevant statistical concepts.After looking closely at the graph above, think about these three questions:• What do you notice?• What do you wonder?What are you curious about that comes from what you notice in the graph?• What might be going on in this graph?Write a catchy headline that captures the graph’s main idea. If your headline makes a claim, tell us what you noticed that supports your claim.The questions are intended to build on one another, so try to answer them in order. Start with “I notice,” then “I wonder,” and end with “The story this graph is telling is ….” and a catchy headline.2. Next, join the conversation by clicking on the comment button and posting in the box that opens on the right. (Students 13 and older are invited to comment, although teachers of younger students are welcome to post what their students have to say.)3. After you have posted, read what others have said, then respond to someone else by posting a comment. Use the “Reply” button or the @ symbol to address that student directly.On Wednesday our collaborator, the American Statistical Association, will facilitate this discussion from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Eastern time to help students’ understanding go deeper. You might use their responses as models for your own.4. On Thursday afternoon, we will reveal more information about the graph at the bottom of this post. Students, we encourage you to post an additional comment after reading the reveal. How does the original New York Times article and the moderators’ comments help you see the graph differently? Try to incorporate the statistical terms defined in the Stat Nuggets in your response._________• Read our introductory post, which includes information about using the “Notice and Wonder” teaching strategy.• Learn about how and why other teachers are using this feature, and use the 2018-19 “What’s Going On in This Graph?” calendar to plan ahead for the 25 Wednesday releases. • Go to the A.S.A. K-12 website, which includes This is Statistics, resources, professional development, student competitions, curriculum, courses and careers._________Updated: December 13, 2018Does Nike’s Zoom Vaporfly, a $250 running shoe with a carbon-fiber plate that some say acts as a catapult, a spring or a lever, really make runners run faster? A qualified yes. The New York Times article “Nike Says Its $250 Running Shoes Will Make You Run Much Faster. What if That’s Actually True?” reports on its extensive statistical analysis of this claim based on race time data. Note when you hover over a data point, the name of the shoe appears.This pricey shoe was released in the summer of 2017. Nike claims that it is 4 percent better than some of its best racing shoes, as measured by how much energy runners expend when running in them. That’s more than 7 minutes in a 3-hour marathon. But, the Times article’s authors Kevin Quealy and Josh Katz dug deeply into marathon running data from Strava, a fitness app that calls itself the social network for athletes. Based on this self-reported data from about 4,000 runners, they pulled out times from runners who changed the brand or model of their shoes in successive races. Then, they compared the two times. After grouping the differences by which shoe they switched to, the authors calculated the average increase or decrease in race time. The result is shown in the graph. In this study, the Vaporflys were about 3.75 percent faster than whatever shoe the runner had worn in the prior race. The journalists also used three other methods of analysis. In all four methods, the runners in Vaporflys ran 3 to 4 percent faster than when running in other shoes.The article only gives a “qualified” yes to the Vaporflys’ superiority because statisticians assert that you can only prove that a particular running shoe (the cause) results in a faster time (the effect) if an experiment were carried out. For this to be an experiment, different running shoes must be assigned randomly to runners. How practical would it be to do this? Is Mr. Quealy and Mr. Katz’s analysis sufficient to declare that the observed increase in speed because of the Vaporflys is statistically significant?On Dec. 11, the New York Times Science Times published the article “Running Slower? Slip These On” which reported on two experiments testing the efficiency of the Vaporflys. These experiments confirmed the 4 percent improvement. Read the article to see how experiments support the claim that running in Vaporflys results in faster times.Here are some of the student headlines that really capture the meaning of this graph: “Running Off the Charts” by Emily & Richard of Hanover, Mich., “Vaporfly ‘Flying’ Faster Than the Competition” by Daniel of Hopkinton, N.H., and “Nike 4% on FLEEK” by Miggyboom of Philadelphia.You may want to think critically about these additional questions:■ Describe the distribution of percentage change in race times. What is the approximate center of the data? The minimum and maximum of all of the data? The min and max of the middle 50% of the data (the 1st and 3rd quartile)? Unusual points (outliers)?■ This graph displays the percentage change in race times for runners who run two races with different shoe brands or models. What are the pros and cons for using this approach to determine if a shoe makes a runner run faster?■ The two articles describe all six approaches to evaluating running shoes. Read the summary of each approach and decide which approach best answers the question “Do Vaporflys make runners run faster?” Also, evaluate the articles’ reasons to remain skeptical.■ The International Association of Athletics Federations has banned sports clothing and equipment that provides a competitive advantage but is not “reasonably available.” Remember the NFL ban on a sticky substance that helped players catch the ball, and swimming officials’ ban on high-tech suits that improved race times? A $250 price tag and limited number of shoes available may make the Vaporflys fall into this category. Do you think the 3 - 4 percent improvement is grounds for a ban on Vaporflys?Below in the Stat Nuggets, we define and explain mathematical terms that apply to this graph. Look into the archives to see past Stat Nuggets.Thank you for participating in “What’s Going On in This Graph?”, which is intended to help you think more critically about graphs and the underlying data. Critical thinking is an essential element of statistics, the science of learning from data. Data visualizations, like these graphs, are an important part of statistics. They help us to understand and learn from data.Keep noticing and wondering. We continue to welcome your responses.Join us Wednesday, Jan. 9 to notice and wonder about how connected we are with social media. The graph will be released on Thursday, Jan. 3. We look forward to your responses between 9 a.m. - 2 p.m. eastern time during the live online moderation.________Stat Nuggets for “What if a $250 Shoe Actually Made You Run Faster?”DOT PLOT A dot plot shows the distribution of quantitative data by plotting points on a number line. Dot plots clearly display outliers, gaps and clusters.The running shoe graph is a dot plot. The data points display the change (either decrease or increase) in running time after switching to a new shoe. The shoe Vaporflys is an outlier with runners who wear them running almost 4% faster than when they ran without them. There is a gap between Vaporflys and the second best performing shoe, the Nike Streak, which seems to help runners run about 3.25% faster. It is also interesting to note that several shoe models seem to slow runners down, like the Hoka One One Bondi. Runners wearing this shoe tended to run about 2.5% slower than with their previous shoe.CLUSTERS, GAPS and OUTLIERSA cluster is formed when several data points lie in a small interval. Data points for items in a cluster may have similar characteristics. A gap is an interval that contains no data. An outlier is a value that is much greater than or much less than other data points. Outliers may indicate an item that may be unusual in comparison with the other items.There is a cluster of data points between about 0.5 and 2.25 percent increase in speed. Because this entire interval is greater than 0, it is reasonable to assume that for many runners, changing shoes results in an improvement in race times.There are several gaps, with the biggest gap being between the two “worst” shoes. Switching to Hoka One One Bondi slows runners down by about 1 percentage point more than the next “worst” running shoe Brooks Adrenaline.The most unusual data point is the Hoka One One Bondi, but the Vaporflys is greater than the next best shoe, Nike Streak, by about 0.5 percentage point. This suggests that something is indeed happening. Maybe the carbon-fiber plate really is acting as a catapult.OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES vs. EXPERIMENTSObservational studies involve observing and collecting data, either from something that has already happened (retrospective study) or is happening (prospective study). There is no interaction with a study’s subjects.An experiment involves imposing a treatment that is randomly assigned to subjects and then observing and collecting data. An observational study can only show an association, whereas an experiment can provide evidence of a cause-and-effect relationship.The $250 shoe graph shows that the $250 shoes are associated with faster race times compared to other shoes. This conclusion came from a retrospective study with data collected from the past 4 years. The Science Times article “Running Slower? Slip These On” discusses the results of several experiments which also concluded that the $250 shoes improved runners’ efficiency and running times.EXPLANATORY AND RESPONSE VARIABLESWhen studying the relationship between two variables, we are looking for an association between them. An explanatory variable is the “input” variable and the response variable is the “output” variable.In the $250 shoe graph, the explanatory variable is the second shoe brand and model and the response variable is the change in race times.LURKING VARIABLEA lurking variable is a variable that is not included in a statistical analysis, but may affect the relationship between the explanatory and response variables. It can falsely identify a strong relationship between variables or hide the true relationship.Lurking variables may include previous race times, age, gender, pre-race training, race conditions and weather. By slicing the data in different ways, Mr. Quealy and Mr. Katz were able to determine that race times, gender and pre-race training were not lurking variables._________The graphs for “What’s Going On in This Graph?” are selected in partnership with Sharon Hessney. Ms. Hessney wrote the “reveal” and Stat Nuggets with Erica Chauvet and moderated online with James Bush, both professors of mathematics at Waynesburg University in Pennsylvania.Advertisement