AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonThe N.F.L. has taken the drastic step of moving its marquee game of the regular season, a showdown between the Chiefs and the Rams, to Los Angeles from Mexico City because of conditions of the field at Estadio Azteca, where the game was scheduled to be played on Monday.The N.F.L. and the N.F.L. Players Association sent inspectors to Mexico City this week to inspect the field, which had been damaged by heavy rains, a concert and soccer matches.The players’ union was worried that players could get injured on the stadium’s torn-up, hybrid turf-grass field, which was installed this summer.“Until very recently, we had no major concerns,” Mark Waller, the N.F.L.’s executive vice president of international events, said in a statement. “But the combination of a difficult rainy season and a heavy multi-event calendar of events at the stadium have resulted in significant damage to the field that presents unnecessary risks to player safety and makes it unsuitable to host an N.F.L. game.”When an N.F.L. team gives up a home game in the United States to play overseas, the league requires the club to keep its home stadium available. In this case, the Rams are the home team, so the game will now take place at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, where the Rams are undefeated this season.Players began calling the union on Monday to express their concerns about the condition of the field in Mexico City. The union, which can tell players not to play on an unsafe field, sent their inspector to Mexico City, but by the time he arrived the N.F.L. had all but determined the game would have to be moved.“It’s disappointing to move the game, but it’s a good thing that player safety was considered,” said George Atallah, a spokesman for the union.The reaction in Mexico was swift, with many left disappointed.“The truth is that there was a lot of motivation, a lot of enthusiasm to see this game in Mexico,” said Sergio Baz Ferreira, the president of the Bufalos de Toluca football team and the president of the American Football Hall of Fame of Mexico. “They are the two best teams so far and this suspension has a great negative impact on all the Mexican fans.”Among those Mexican fans is Gustavo Campos Vaz, a lawyer in Mexico City, who wrote a Twitter post that translates to, “Very bad that the NFL game at the Azteca is not played; undoubtedly there are many responsibilities involved in this failure without apology; those affected, the fans, those who paid tickets and the image of Mexico to the outside.”The field at Aztec stadium has received plenty of attention from the Mexican media, with several leaders and coaches of soccer teams that play there complaining about the field’s condition. Some critics have noted that events were held in the stadium before the new surface had enough time to take root. Enio Cubillo, the owner of Turf Managers Special, which installed the field, told AS Mexico that the stadium operators were responsible for maintaining the field.In a statement, the stadium operators blamed the long rainy season and the high number of events. They said they would review the work of the company that supplied the turf.After playing a game at Estadio Azteca in 2005, the N.F.L. refused to play there again until the building was upgraded with better locker rooms, more infrastructure for television equipment and other measures.In 2016, the N.F.L. returned to Mexico City with a game between the Oakland Raiders and Houston Texans. Last year, the New England Patriots played the Raiders.The league was aware that a new field had been installed this year, but the conditions changed as a result of the stadium having been heavily used. The Club América and Cruz Azul soccer teams, and the Mexican national soccer team, play there. A concert by Shakira also damaged the field last month.This is not the first time a game has been canceled because of the condition of the field. In 2016, the league called off its annual season-opening game in Canton, Ohio, at the Pro Football Hall of Fame. The Green Bay Packers and Indianapolis Colts were due to play, but the paint used to paint logos on the field had hardened, raising concerns that players might slip and injure themselves.While canceling that exhibition had few ramifications, this decision is a step backward for the league, which has spent the last decade trying to expand its brand globally. The N.F.L. plays as many as four games per season in London, but only in recent years has it broken even hosting the games. The N.F.L. also spends heavily to market the games. Teams that travel to London are reimbursed for their expenses, and teams that give up a home game in the United States are compensated for any lost revenue.In some ways, Mexico City is better fit for the N.F.L. than London. The league says it has 7.1 million avid fans in Mexico, where the rules of the game are more familiar. Every week, nine N.F.L. games are televised in Mexico, and the number of people who have paid for the league’s internet broadcast package has increased by 40 percent in the past year. Plus, teams that travel to Mexico City do not have to travel across as many time zones as they do when they go to London.In a recent interview, Waller added that the games in Mexico dovetail with the league’s goal of appealing to Hispanic fans in the United States. “There’s a lot more synergy with our U.S. agenda, which makes the game more powerful across the two countries, and this year the scheduling gods were in our favor,” he said, referring to the matchup between the Chiefs and Rams, who are both 9-1, with the best records in their conferences.No teams like to lose players to injury, but the Chiefs and Rams are both in position to qualify for the playoffs and are acutely aware that losing a key player could derail their postseason chances. On Sunday, Rams receiver Cooper Kupp tore his A.C.L. in a game in Los Angeles and was ruled out for the season.The Chiefs will have to reroute their team plane to Los Angeles. The Rams, meanwhile, flew to Colorado Springs on Monday to spend the week training at altitude. Instead of flying to Mexico City on Sunday, the team will return to Los Angeles on Saturday.Albinson Linares contributed reporting from Mexico City.Advertisement