AdvertisementSupported byAaron Rodgers leads the Packers into New England, the undefeated Rams battle red-hot New Orleans and the Browns begin a new era.By Benjamin HoffmanWith the N.F.L. season roughly at its halfway mark, the scoring uptick no longer seems like a blip. Through eight weeks, dizzying marks have been set in points (5,834), total touchdowns (661) and passing touchdowns (429). Week 9 offers several notable matchups: one between future Hall of Fame quarterbacks; another between teams that have combined to go 14-1 so far; and a rematch of the quarterbacks in one of the craziest college football games in history. Here is a look at N.F.L. Week 9, with all picks made against the point spread.Last week’s record: 10-4Overall record: 67-50-3Packers at Patriots, 8:20 p.m., NBCErase the records. Ignore the frustration Green Bay has had, and the fact that the team just traded away one of its best defenders. This is Aaron Rodgers vs. Tom Brady, and that’s the top matchup of the week regardless of the circumstances.Two of the best to ever sling it will face off in New England, having shared a field only twice before.The first time should hardly count. At age 22, Rodgers came on in relief of Brett Favre in 2006 in a 35-0 trouncing by the Patriots in which Brady threw four touchdown passes. It certainly didn’t help Green Bay’s cause that the young Rodgers completed just four of his 12 passes. (Though, to be fair, Favre had completed only five of his own 15 passes.)Rodgers and Brady next met in 2014, and that one went much better for the Packers. Rodgers threw for 368 passing yards and two touchdowns, handing that season’s Super Bowl-winning team one of the four losses it had all season.Age has yet to take its full toll on either player. They are still two of the game’s best quarterbacks, and they spent the week complimenting each other. But the Patriots (6-2) have done a lot more than the Packers (3-3-1) to ensure that their quarterback is surrounded with the right pieces to win. And in what is likely their final game against each other, Brady should prevail. Pick: Patriots -6 Rams at Saints, 4:25 p.m., FoxAny team that gets midway through a season undefeated probably had a few moments of luck along the way, and the Rams (8-0) got theirs last week when a poor decision by a kick returner cost Green Bay a shot at a comeback win. Now Los Angeles will go for 9-0 against the Saints (6-1), who have won six straight and enjoy a strong home-field advantage at the Superdome. Both teams can seemingly score at will. Jared Goff and Todd Gurley find new ways to thrive for the Rams every week, while the Saints managed to put up 30 points last week even with Drew Brees throwing for 120 yards, the fewest he has had in a game since 2006.The Rams are the better team. Their offense is just as good as the Saints’, but their defense has a better scheme and considerably more talent. They may not seem good enough to reach 16-0, but even on the road in New Orleans, 9-0 seems like a distinct possibility. Pick: Rams +2Chiefs at Browns, 1 p.m., CBSA Patrick Mahomes revenge game?In 2016, Mahomes was the quarterback for Texas Tech, and Baker Mayfield was leading Oklahoma. The Red Raiders and the Sooners engaged in one of the most productive offensive battles in football history. The numbers are staggering: Mahomes completed 52 of 88 passes for 734 yards and five touchdowns. Mayfield completed 27 of 36 passes for 545 yards and seven touchdowns. Oklahoma’s Joe Mixon rushed for 263 yards and was one of four players who topped 100 receiving yards in the game. In all, the teams managed to combine for 75 first downs, 1,708 yards of offense (amazingly, both teams had 854) and 19 scoring plays. Mayfield’s team came out on top, 66-59. Now Mahomes will get a chance for payback when the Chiefs (7-1) go to Cleveland to face the Browns (2-5-1). This is a comical mismatch in talent, but with Cleveland in disarray thanks to the firing of Coach Hue Jackson, it is impossible to predict how the Browns will react. Expecting the chaos to lead to a win over Kansas City would probably be too much to ask. Pick: Chiefs -8.5Steelers at Ravens, 1 p.m., CBSThe Ravens (4-4) are awfully scary for a team with a .500 record. They have a ferocious defense that still is allowing just 17.1 points a game despite consecutive losses. And their offense, while not quite as good, does enough to keep teams honest. They are, unfortunately, hosting the Steelers (4-2-1) at a particularly bad time. Pittsburgh is on a roll, both on offense and defense, and has a ton of motivation to keep winning: The Upshot’s Playoff Simulator gives the Steelers an 80 percent chance of making the playoffs if they win this game. This one should be a battle. Pick: Steelers +3Raiders at 49ers, 8:20 p.m., Fox and NFL NetworkThe final Battle of the Bay marks the end of a rivalry that had a cool nickname, some fan violence and not very much good football. In their shared years in the Bay Area, the 49ers (1-7) and Raiders (1-6) have managed to play each other only eight times; each has won four times. In this rubber match, which features two of the N.F.L.’s three worst teams, it’s a tossup: The team that seems to be trying to lose (Oakland) versus one that might be down to its third-string quarterback (San Francisco). Pick: 49ers -3Chargers at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., CBSThe Seahawks (4-3) have won four of their last five games, and even if the competition has not been particularly stiff, Seattle is still taking care of business. This week, the Seahawks are at home — they always play well there — but are facing the Chargers (5-2), a team that is coming off a bye week and scores a lot of points, defends reasonably well and has won four consecutive games. There is every reason to believe it will be a close game, but Seattle’s offensive line has been terrific, and it should be able to bulldoze enough holes for Chris Carson to secure the win. Pick: Seahawks -1.5Falcons at Redskins, 1 p.m., FoxThe Redskins (5-2) have won four consecutive games thanks largely to their defense; the unit has been incredible since a blowout loss to New Orleans in Week 5. At the trading deadline, Washington added Ha Ha Clinton-Dix, who should immediately form the N.F.L.’s best safety duo with D.J. Swearinger. The timing couldn’t be better, with the Falcons (3-4) in town. Atlanta has such a terrific group of wide receivers that the team will always score points, but Washington’s defense should hold firm enough to secure a win at home. Pick: Redskins -1.5Buccaneers at Panthers, 1 p.m., FoxRyan Fitzpatrick came so close last week. The journeyman quarterback of the Buccaneers (3-4) came in to replaced a benched Jameis Winston, and he flipped the FitzMagic switch, erasing an 18-point deficit in the fourth quarter against Cincinnati. Unfortunately, he scored too quickly, leaving Andy Dalton 1 minute 5 seconds to go 50 yards and set up a game-winning field goal. The performance earned Fitzpatrick another start (either that or Winston’s four-interception performance earned him another week on the bench), but unlike the Bengals, the Panthers (5-2) have a defense that can capitalize on Fitzpatrick’s mistakes. Pick: Panthers -6Bears at Bills, 1 p.m., FoxOn Oct. 20, Terrelle Pryor, a wide receiver, was cut by the Jets because a groin tear was expected to keep him out for two weeks. Pryor signed with the Bills (2-6), and if Nathan Peterman plays anything like Nathan Peterman in his emergency start at quarterback, there is a chance that Pryor will be asked to take snaps under center. He last attempted a pass on Oct. 16, 2016. He has not been a full-time quarterback since 2013. It’s ridiculous, it’s amusing and it’s got to be frustrating for Colin Kaepernick, who remains unsigned. The Bears (4-3) should win, but nothing they have done recently justifies a double-digit spread on the road, even against Buffalo. Pick: Bills +10Texans at Broncos, 4:05 p.m., CBSAfter 125 career regular-season games (and a Super Bowl win) for the Broncos (3-5), Demaryius Thomas will start his new life as a member of the Texans (5-3) in Denver. It’s not quite irony, but it certainly should provide some motivation for the former Pro Bowl wide receiver to get off to a hot start. Houston needs him after a season-ending injury to Will Fuller V. Pick: Texans +1Lions at Vikings, 1 p.m., FoxThey both lost last week, but the Vikings (4-3-1) can justify the result as it came against New Orleans, one of the hottest teams in the N.F.L., and it might have gone the other way if not for a fumble by a player who never fumbles. The Lions (3-4), on the other hand, were demolished at home by Seattle, which typically does not travel well. Minnesota has a talent advantage, a home-field advantage and an “Adam Thielen gets 100 receiving yards every week” advantage. So unless Thielen, one of the most sure-handed players in football, fumbles away a red zone opportunity for a second straight week, the Vikings should be fine. Pick: Vikings -4.5Jets at Dolphins, 1 p.m., CBSThe Jets (3-5) have lost two straight, managing a combined 27 points in those games, but compared with the Dolphins (4-4), they are hot. Miami has lost four of five, will start Brock Osweiler at quarterback, won’t have the team’s second-best wide receiver, Albert Wilson, and might not have its top receiver, Kenny Stills. The Jets are banged up as well, but they should keep it close or get a road win. Pick: Jets +3Titans at Cowboys, 8:15 p.m., ESPNThe Cowboys (3-4) have won only two of their last four games, but the two losses came by a combined 6 points. They are tougher on defense than they have been at any point in recent memory, and their offense is starting to get into something resembling a groove. The Titans (3-4) make nearly every game a fight, and this one should be no different. Dallas can win a trench battle with the right use of Ezekiel Elliott, but the final score may be a lot closer than 6 points. Pick: Titans +6.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement