AdvertisementSupported byThe Steelers look to start a new win streak, the Vikings travel to New England and the Chiefs and the Rams are back from bye weeks.By Benjamin HoffmanThings are getting serious as the N.F.L. season enters its final stretch. The Los Angeles Rams can officially clinch a playoff spot — they would need to beat Detroit or have Seattle lose to San Francisco to clinch the N.F.C. West — and other teams are looking to improve their position.Twenty of 32 teams enter Week 13 in genuine contention to reach the postseason, none of them more than a game out of a place in the standings that could yield a playoff spot.There is plenty of optimism even for a few teams with losing records through 11 games. Research by the N.F.L. indicates 12 teams since 2004 have overcome such a situation to qualify for postseason play. That statistic should be music to the ears of fans in Denver, Philadelphia and Tennessee. Here is a look at N.F.L. Week 13, with all picks made against the point spread.Last week’s record: 5-10Overall record: 96-75-4Chargers at Steelers, 8:20 p.m., NBCIn case anyone thought the dysfunction in Pittsburgh’s locker room had dissipated after a six-game winning streak, that matter was cleared up when the Steelers (7-3-1) lost a winnable game against Denver last week and Ben Roethlisberger, who essentially gave the game away with a late interception, took to the radio to blast his teammates for the defeat. Apparently, in Roethlisberger’s view, it was not his fault that he threw a ball right to a 290-pound defensive lineman standing a few yards in front of him in a bright orange jersey. It was Antonio Brown’s route-running that caused the problem. The loss, and Roethlisberger’s comments, left things a little murky for the Steelers, a team that had been among the league’s best after a slow start.Enter the Chargers (8-3), who have the fifth-best scoring differential in the N.F.L. Their defense has been as effective as Pittsburgh’s, if not better, and their offense is tied for seventh in the N.F.L. in points a game.This game would absolutely be shaping up as a Los Angeles upset if not for the absence of Melvin Gordon, the Chargers’ star running back, who is out with a strain of his medial collateral ligament. Austin Ekeler is a great change-of-pace back, and if he can replace at least 80 percent of Gordon’s production, the Chargers will stand a chance. But there are enough durability concerns about Ekeler that Pittsburgh is rightly the favorite at home. Pick: Steelers -3.5Vikings at Patriots, 4:25 p.m., FoxThe Vikings (6-4-1) dodged a bullet when a magnetic resonance imaging exam showed no structural damage in cornerback Xavier Rhodes’s injured hamstring. He is a vital part of the secondary for a team ranked fifth in the N.F.L. against the pass. Minnesota will need all the help it can get against the Patriots (8-3) now that tight end Rob Gronkowski is fully healthy for the first time in weeks and receiver Josh Gordon has somehow morphed into the reliable threat he never was in Cleveland. Pick: Patriots -5Rams at Lions, 1 p.m., FoxIt is hard to say with a straight face that a team that allowed 51 points in a game won it because of defense, but the Rams (10-1) beat the Chiefs in Week 11 largely because of two strip sacks and three interceptions. Sure, Los Angeles allowed a ton of yardage as well, but its secondary could get a huge lift this week if Aqib Talib, who was recently activated off injured reserve, can play. Oddsmakers have had a difficult time predicting Rams games this season — the team is 4-6-1 against the spread — and while a victory against the Lions (4-7) is likely, especially if Talib plays, a double-digit spread on the road seems like another projection that is slightly off base. Pick: Lions +10Chiefs at Raiders, 4:05 p.m., CBSWith the shocking news of Kareem Hunt being cut by the Chiefs (9-2) following the release of a video showing him attacking a woman, no one knows how the team will react on the field. Kansas City hardly needed Hunt to beat the Raiders (2-9), but its adjustment to life without the versatile running back makes it less likely that the team can cover the enormous point-spread. The Chiefs’ depth at running back will be tested in future weeks, but the team clearly decided it could not look past the incident, especially after they decided Hunt had lied to them about the severity of the attack. Pick: Raiders +15Saints at Cowboys, 8:20 p.m., Fox and NFL NetworkEven by his record-setting standards, Drew Brees of the Saints (10-1) is having a standout season, with 29 touchdown passes — including 15 in his last four games. The Cowboys (6-5) present an interesting matchup, as they have allowed only 15 passing touchdowns all season. Though the Dallas defense is ranked 12th in passing yards allowed (237.5) and does not have an eye-popping number of sacks (31) or interceptions (7), only Minnesota has allowed fewer passing touchdowns. Dallas might not be able to secure a win, but even in a loss it should make the Saints fight, so New Orleans’s nine-game streak of covering the spread as a favorite or winning outright as an underdog just might end. Pick: Cowboys +7.5Browns at Texans, 1 p.m. CBSYou have probably heard a lot about the awkward reception the Browns (4-6) gave their former coach Hue Jackson last week as Cleveland beat Jackson’s Bengals. The relationship between Jackson and Cleveland’s rookie quarterback, Baker Mayfield, has been debated quite a bit. But considering the Browns’ 2-1 record under Coach Gregg Williams, it might be more instructive to figure out why the team has performed so much better since Jackson’s firing than to overanalyze the pleasantries, or lack thereof, with a coach who is no longer running the team. That’s about the most interesting subplot of this game, as the Texans (8-3) are much farther along in their development and should win easily at home. Pick: Texans -5.5Colts at Jaguars, 1 p.m., CBSThe Jaguars (3-8) are on a seven-game losing streak, plan to start Cody Kessler and his 0-8 career record at quarterback, and will be without running back Leonard Fournette, who was suspended for one game after fighting last week. There are some complicating factors for the Colts (6-5), including the fact that Marlon Mack, the starting running back, is still in the league’s concussion protocol and that Jack Doyle, one of the team’s top tight ends, has been placed on injured reserve. But Andrew Luck has been so hot that picking Kessler over him, even with the game in Jacksonville, seems like a bad idea. Pick: Colts -4Ravens at Falcons, 1 p.m., CBSIn the last two weeks, the Ravens (6-5) have simply run their opponents into the ground. A pair of rookies — quarterback Lamar Jackson and running back Gus Edwards — have led the way as the Ravens steamrollered for a combined 509 rushing yards in wins over two of the worst teams in the N.F.L. Playing at home, the Falcons (4-7) are a far stiffer test than Cincinnati or Oakland, and while Atlanta is correctly a favorite, there is a decent possibility of an upset when you consider the Falcons have allowed 5.1 yards a rush this season, which ranks them 30th in the N.F.L. Pick: Falcons -1Bears at Giants, 1 p.m., FoxIt looks as if Mitchell Trubisky is unlikely to start at quarterback for the Bears (8-3), but Chase Daniel’s filling in last week did little to slow them down. Chicago’s defense carried it to a fifth consecutive win, with safety Eddie Jackson scoring a go-ahead pick-6 in the fourth quarter — the second straight week he returned an interception for a touchdown. Eli Manning has done a decent job of not turning the ball over this season, but it seems likely that his numbers will take a big hit against Chicago’s top-notch secondary. Pick: Bears (off)Broncos at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBSAs Von Miller repeatedly said at his news conference after last week’s shocking win over Pittsburgh, the Broncos (5-6) are “on to Cincinnati.” His channeling of New England’s Bill Belichick was an odd piece of performance art from one of the game’s brightest players, but whatever the star linebacker is doing to pump up his teammates is working. Denver has turned into a giant killer, ending six-game winning streaks by opposing teams two weeks in a row. The Bengals (5-6) are not giants. They have lost three straight, have perhaps the N.F.L.’s worst defense and will be starting Jeff Driskel at quarterback in place of the injured Andy Dalton. Even on the road, a 5-point line in favor of Denver seems conservative. Pick: Broncos -5Panthers at Buccaneers, 1 p.m., FoxSay what you will about the Buccaneers (4-7), but they rarely get shortchanged in yardage. This week should be no exception as they will play host to the Panthers (6-5), who have looked pedestrian lately on both offense and defense. Even when you account for the turnovers that are bound to happen when you have Jameis Winston or Ryan Fitzpatrick at quarterback, it is hard to see how the Panthers’ offense, which seems to consist mostly of giving Christian McCaffrey the ball and hoping for the best, can keep up. Pick: Buccaneers +3.5Cardinals at Packers, 1 p.m., FoxThere is something wrong in Green Bay. Aaron Rodgers is putting up strong statistics, Aaron Jones seems like the answer at running back, but the Packers (4-6-1) can’t seem to win games. It’s a mystery that will continue to confound the team as they try to work their way back into the playoff race in the next few weeks, but it shouldn’t be something to worry about against the Cardinals (2-9), a team that’s biggest accomplishment of the season is only losing to Kansas City by 12. Pick: Packers -14Jets at Titans, 4:05 p.m., CBSThe Titans (5-6) have been all over the place under their first-year head coach, Mike Vrabel. After they won at Dallas and blew out the Patriots at home, they were looking like a sneaky contender. Consecutive road blowouts at the hands of the Colts and the Texans have brought them back to reality. Now they return home to face the lowly Jets (3-8), who are likely to be without Sam Darnold, their starting quarterback, for a third consecutive week. It is hard to be too enthusiastic about Tennessee’s offense, but the Jets’ offense has been held to 17 or fewer points in each of its last five games, so it won’t take much scoring to get the Titans back on track. Pick: Titans -7.549ers at Seahawks, 4:25 p.m., FoxIt should have felt unnatural for Richard Sherman, the longtime Seattle star, to sign with the division rival San Francisco, but once you consider the mass exodus of talent from the Seahawks (6-5) and the irrelevance of the current 49ers (2-9), the situation just doesn’t muster much emotion. San Francisco has performed better on defense than many expected, and it has the offensive skill players to take a leap next season when quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo returns from his knee injury. But for now, the Niners are hardly a threat to Seattle, so the fans at CenturyLink Field should have no problem giving their former star a warm welcome. Pick: Seahawks -9.5Bills at Dolphins, 1 p.m., CBSThere is not much reason to watch this game if you’re not a passionate fan of the Bills (4-7) or the Dolphins (5-6). Even if Miami wins, and returns to .500, The Upshot estimates that its playoff chances would improve to only about 11 percent. Fans of Frank Gore may want to tune in, however, as the ageless running back needs 74 yards from scrimmage to pass LaDainian Tomlinson for fifth on the career list. The result is mostly a tossup, so taking the points with Buffalo is a good move. Pick: Bills +4.5Redskins at Eagles, 8:15 p.m., ESPNColt McCoy's first start at quarterback this season could have gone a lot worse for the Redskins (6-5), but their loss to Dallas put those teams in a tie at the top of the N.F.C. East, with all the momentum going against Washington. The Upshot’s playoff simulator estimated that the Redskins’ chances of winning their division dropped to 31 percent with the loss, and another loss this week would drop them to around 15 percent.The Eagles (5-6) have about an 18 percent chance of making the playoffs and a 17 percent chance of winning the East, but that is with just about everything going wrong that could have gone wrong. They still have the bulk of the players that won the Super Bowl last season, and they can smell blood at the top of their division. A prime-time game at home would be a good time to send a statement that they are still in the hunt. Pick: Eagles -6.5.Benjamin Hoffman is a senior staff editor and regular contributor to the Keeping Score column in sports. He joined The Times in 2005.  @BenHoffmanNYT • Facebook Advertisement