AdvertisementSupported byBy Victor MatherThe N.C.A.A. final will tip off about 9:20 p.m. Eastern on Monday in Minneapolis, the culmination of the men’s college basketball season.How can I watch? The game will be broadcast by CBS. A stream is available here.Who’s playing? Virginia (34-3) and Texas Tech (31-6).That’s unexpected. Have they been here before? No. Neither team has played in the title game before this year. Virginia was last in the Final Four in 1984; Texas Tech had never previously advanced past the last eight.Wait, what happened to Duke? The consensus best team in the college game this season, one stocked with future N.B.A. lottery picks like Zion Williamson and RJ Barrett, Duke lost to Michigan State in the last eight.Didn’t Virginia make news last year? Yes, of the wrong kind. Virginia lost in the first round to the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, becoming the first No. 1 men’s seed to lose to a No. 16. This year, Virginia is again seeded No. 1.Who’s going to win? Oddsmakers call it almost even; Virginia is a 1½-point favorite.Who are the stars? Virginia’s three-pronged attack has De’Andre Hunter, a scorer also known for his defense, and guards Ty Jerome and Kyle Guy, who made three crucial free throws with a second left to beat Auburn in the semifinals.Texas Tech’s big name is shooting guard Jarrett Culver, who blossomed as a sophomore to become Big 12 player of the year. He leads the team in all three major categories, with 19 points, 4 assists and 6 rebounds a game. He hasn’t yet achieved the fame of another former Texas Tech star, Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes, who drew attention in the stands at the semifinal, but he is getting there.Will we be seeing any of these players in the N.B.A. next year? Hunter and Culver could both be selected among the 10 picks in this year’s draft.Where are the freshmen? With the elimination of Duke and Kentucky, the freshman-dominated teams have fallen out. No freshman averaged more than 5.3 points for either of the finalists.How will the game break down? Slowly. Virginia plays a deliberate style of basketball, having put up the slowest pace in Division I for four years running. Both teams also have great defenses, so scoring could be at a premium. Texas Tech likes to trap and force turnovers; Virginia just frustrates opponents until they take a bad shot, or fail to get one off at all.Advertisement